The following is a conversation with Michael Malis, his fifth time on this, the Lex Friedman
podcast. To support it, please check out our sponsors in the description. And now, here's
my New Year's Eve 2021 conversation with the one and only, Mr. Michael Malis.
Dostoevsky wrote in The Idiot, my favorite of his books,
through the main character, Prince Mishkin, that beauty will save the world.
These words seemingly naive and ultimately, at least to me, profound. What do they mean to you?
Beauty will save the world.
Naive? Really? I don't think they seem naive at all.
Well, Solzhenitsyn, actually, for his 1970 Nobel Prize speech, talked about this line a lot.
And he thought for most of his life, that was a silly line. There was just words thrown out there,
because with all the suffering that's in the world, what has beauty actually ever done?
Oh, my God, I hate this so much.
You're talking trash about Solzhenitsyn?
Yeah, I am. And this perfectly sets up this theme. I said, let's do this episode,
start the new year on a positive note, give people hope, give people joy.
You and I both have friends who are models, right? And it's a silly profession to some extent, of
course. But you are actually a model. You are my friend.
I am. That's right. That's true. I am under a model. I was trying to be subtle.
But for those people who actually deserve to be models, when you look at someone who is a model
and in some of their photos, and these people look perfect. Now, in real life, they're not perfect.
They have flaws. They'll be the first to admit it, so on and so forth. But when you look at beauty,
it is almost impossible to maintain a sense of cynicism and hopelessness. Because if there's
even one moment when some element of perfection has been actualized, if there's one moment where
a beauty has been realized and captured, you can't say, well, it's never going to happen again.
So I think beauty, it means hope. I think I hate that cynical idea of like,
I get, I appreciate Solzhenitsyn's broader point that a lot of times people, there's something
called the deepity, where people throw words together to sound profound. And if you take it
apart, like this is just complete gibberish, I don't think this is an example of that. I think
beauty inspires, and more importantly, it proves to you this is something that can actually happen
on this earth. Plato, right? The Platonic theory of forms, like this world is imperfect, but these
perfect forms exist in another dimension, and that's where our concepts come from. He was an
early person trying to figure out where our concepts come from, and epistemology and so on and so
forth. But that is something that is real in here. So I completely disagree with his analysis of that,
and I don't know if it'll save the world, but it's certainly a prerequisite. And what's the point
of fighting for your values, if you don't want to make the world a more beautiful place?
Well, it's also how you define beauty, because beauty could be just aesthetic beauty, could be
art. Of course, art could be, could encompass a lot, a lot more than just literature and paintings,
it can encompass the full life, the full dance of life. But then beauty could be something
just deeper, like whatever that awe you feel, when you pause and hear the music,
just hear and look up at the stars. For some reason, when I see rockets go up,
for me, it's like science. What is that? The awe that we're able to accomplish
that as humans. You know, that's funny, because there's lots of different schools of thought,
like these people versus these people, and maybe vegans versus steakhouse people.
I think in terms of the sciences, and I guess you and I would be on opposite sides here,
you have the astronomy people versus the zoology people. The big question is, would you rather
spend 10 minutes on the moon, or would you rather spend 10 minutes in the deep sea? And for me,
it's clearly the deep sea. The zoology that's down there, there's something I would encourage
people to look up called deep staria, which is a jellyfish. The scientists, what's amazing when
you watch these deep sea dives on YouTube is that the scientists, their nature dorks like
everybody else, they went into this field, and there's none of this, maybe, soul genitian style
cynicism of when they see an amazing animal in its natural environment, you know, exhibiting these
crazy behaviors, they lose it. They're on the mic like, oh my god, and like, it's so exciting to
watch. So I'm not a rocket person, but I'm definitely a zoology person. So animals and plants in the
sea. And also, it's so mathematical. There's so much, so many forms. There's this, there's this,
there's this plant called areospermum titanupsoides. I don't know how to pronounce it, because they're
always in Latin, you never hear them pronounced. You said sperm. Areospermum, yeah, because it's
woolly seed is the, is the genus. The leaf, it's just always puts out one leaf, but the leaf is
covered in little magnifying glasses, lenses to make it maximize the sunlight. So it looks like
this little crystal seashell, it's tiny, it's like two centimeters, but it's just this amazing thing
that has, that grows out of the sands in South Africa. Just a defense old Jensen for a second.
So if I may read a couple of his lines from the speech, so he said, one day, this is how he introduces
it, one day, Dostoevsky throughout the enigmatic remark, beauty will save the world. What sort
of a statement is that? For a long time, I considered it near words. How could that be possible
when in bloodthirsty history, did beauty ever save anyone from anything? And then later, he
goes on to argue with himself in the speech as a older wiser man now. But perhaps that ancient
trinity of truth, goodness, and beauty is not simply an empty fated formula, as we thought in
the days of our self confident materialistic youth. If the tops of these three trees converge,
as the scholars maintained, but the two blatant to direct stems of truth and goodness are crushed,
cut down, not allowed through, then perhaps the fantastic, unpredictable, unexpected stems of
beauty will push through and soar to that very same place. And so doing will fulfill the work
of all three. In that case, Dostoevsky's remark, beauty will save the world, was not a careless
phrase, but a prophecy. Which of your, which of these three things are your favorites? Truth,
goodness, or beauty? What did he call truth and goodness? The blatant to direct stems of truth
and goodness versus the fantastic, unpredictable, unexpected stems of beauty, which is how I see
your Twitter account. I don't think that I think there's certain birth of beauty to be had in my
Twitter account, that's for sure. It's certainly no goodness. Or truth. Yeah, yeah. It's Twitter,
there's no truth to be found. I would, I will answer the question. I will, of course, point out
that having this kind of, you know, distinction between the three things is, I think, kind of
synthetic. I think they very heavily overlap. If not, if I could probably make the argument,
they're synonymous. In fact, I do believe that they're largely synonymous.
Goodness. That's such an interesting word, goodness. Which of those three is my favorite?
I think truth is overrated in the sense that if something is a good story,
the story doesn't have to be true or real in order to motivate you and move you.
A lot of times we can delude ourselves about somebody and that might actually serve a purpose to
some extent. You know, if you have someone who's maybe a family member and you kind of ignore
bad things that they do, there might be a reason for that. Of the three, which is most important,
I think, I would say probably goodness. I would say of the three, the most important is goodness,
because if you don't appreciate goodness, then beauty is just empty. It's just a picture or
it's nice. Bad people appreciate beauty. Bad people are often seductive or have a beauty about them.
In terms of action, I think it takes a lot of skill and work to create beauty or to create
truth or to express truth or to express beauty. But I think goodness is the easiest default
state of being, just being good to others. Yeah. There'll be things where these videos where
one dog is drowning and another dog jumps in and saves it from the pool. That to me is
just really amazing stuff and is very moving. To me, goodness means integrity and it means kindness.
And yeah, I think of the three, that would be the one I pick. I think people also have this
idea, which is inculcated to them, especially by corporate America, that as you get older,
it's okay to do the wrong things sometimes, blah, blah, blah. I don't buy that. And so,
I think goodness gets rarer and rarer. And I think people know better and they tell themselves lies.
Yeah. But once you get, allow yourself the chance to just be good, I think it makes for a better
life. Yeah. It's not that much work. It's not like going to the gym or working out. That's a lot
of work and it's great afterwards. But goodness is easy once you get into the habit of it. I
suppose working out the same way. There's a lot of stuff. If you make it to a habit,
you're going to get the rewards of it and it's going to be easy. The rewards of goodness,
I think, are more immediate than the rewards of working out. As opposed to the hard drugs.
Yeah. If you mentioned this quote on one of your live streams, I think, if you save one life,
you save the world. Yeah. That's such a cool line. I remember reading about Paul Farmer,
I think his name is, he's a doctor that really, I mean, doctors in general, they kind of don't care
about like what they're doing as a broad policy across hundreds of thousands of millions of
people. They just care about the human in front of them. Which is so interesting. They don't care
it's going to cost, like in his case, to save one child, it will cost him hundreds of thousands of
dollars. They don't care about that. They can't, they know very well that what their actions cannot
be scaled, but they can't help but help the child in front of them. And it's so interesting.
There's such an interesting way to live. And that's the way I kind of think when I try to do
something positive is will this help one person? And I just kind of imagine a specific person
depending on the thing that that would help with, like what I'm trying to create something,
whether it's a piece of hardware or a video or anything like that, or educational material,
lecture, that kind of stuff. I don't know. What do you think about this quote? Like what,
is it profound or just just poetic? I think it's more profound than it sounds at first.
The example I think of is Michelle Bachman. She was a former congresswoman from Minnesota.
She clearly had crazy eyes. Something weird was going on with the husband. But she adopted like
20 kids. Terry Shappert's another friend of mine. He's like either Navy SEAL or Marines,
whatever it is. Terry, I apologize. I'm not trying to be funny. And he adopts like elder dogs. So
going back to Bachman, it's like, yeah, you can say she's crazy. You can make fun of her politics,
all you want, and all that stuff's legitimate. But if you save a kid, give them a home, and you
save them from the foster system, and you put a roof over their heads and make them feel loved
and appreciated, it's really hard for me to sit here and call you like a totally bad person.
I think that kind of thing is Nick Cersei's another one. He adopted a kid. And I said,
I think you're a hero. One of the things that's very hard for me, as you know,
I talk about this endlessly, this book, The White Pill. But writing about when people do
hurtful things to children, it really is hard to watch. And it's hard to, because when you're an
author, you have to kind of empathize with the character. You have to, where's this character
coming from? Explain their point of view. And that's the one that's the hardest for me to wrap
my head around. Cruelty to children. Yeah. And yeah, sadism to children. This is something
even animals know not to do, do you know what I mean? Dogs, when you see them around kids,
they're very protective. If the kid pokes their eyes out, the dog doesn't do anything.
If you can't even get to that level, what kind of person are you? So I think that quote
is a profound one. And it's an important one. It also means we're not all called upon to be
Superman, right? You only have very finite ability to move the needle. But at the same time,
if you have actually, you know, saved the life, you can go to meet your maker. You did your part.
You know, you left the world a little bit better than you found it. And that's all you could ask
anybody. Also, I think from a policy perspective, it seems we just do better when we focus on doing
a small thing, helping a helping one person, because it feels like when you start talking
about communism and all those kinds of things, when you start to believe you could do good by a
lot of people, that's where your mind somehow stops being able to do good by a lot of people.
That's when you start to think about utopias and somehow utopias goes to
the feeds, power into the brain to where it deludes you completely. And then you start,
it's okay to crack a few eggs to make an omelet kind of reasoning and you run into trouble.
It seems like it's much better even when you have the power and the money and so on
to achieve scale to focus on one and then or locally locally. Yeah. Yeah. Because then
also you have the feedback, right? So if you have some kind of program, you know, in Austin or
Brooklyn or something like that and you can, you can watch, oh, this is working, this isn't working,
then you can port it out to other places. But top down helping is, you know, at the very least,
it's going to be inefficient. And also, I think it's a lot more useful when you're helping people,
when it's a one on one relationship, because then it's less, I don't know, embarrassing,
but certainly less something to receive help. And you also feel if it's one thing, if you get a
check from the government, you know, food stamps, it's not thing if someone's like, hey, I'm going
to buy your groceries until you get back on your feet. You have this kind of motivation. I think
for most people to be like, you know what, this person believed in me, I'm going to make it worth
their while that they believed in me. Because I didn't believe in me. Yeah. When I was giving
lectures at MIT, there was one that was scare shitless. And I mean, everybody, you know,
how students are and all that kind of stuff, they're kind of bored. Yeah. And they don't,
they don't understand that you're human too. Yeah. Or this could be just me.
Oh, they don't understand you're trying to pass this human.
I know. But there's one, one gentleman in the audience, and he went to all the lectures,
all the gentlemen, he was a faculty at MIT. And he just, without very kind of nonchalant,
just said, after the lectures, he kind of nodded me and say, you did great.
And before, like one time he said, in a noncreepy way, I know this is going to come off as creepy.
He said, you look great today. Like he said that in a, I don't know, in the way, so he's
like 60, 70, whatever, like he, in this, I don't know, it's a wise sage way. Because I was wearing
a suit and tie. Like I look like, you know, when you dress up like a young kid, you dress
like a mother. So he was just like, all right, yeah, you're, you're all dressed up. You look
great. You got this. I don't know. That has an elastic impact that kind of
pad on the back. But I agree with you. Cruelty towards other adults is somehow understandable.
Because it's a world full of conflict, but cruelty towards children doesn't,
it doesn't quite, I can't, I can't understand it. I can't understand how you could act in a way
that directly causes suffering to a child in front of you. Yeah, that is like the, I don't think
I've ever talked to you. This might be a good time to ask you about this. What do you make,
what lessons do you draw about human civilization from Jeffrey Epstein, from just laying out.
Well, everybody thinks about different things. When you talk to Eric Weinstein, he thinks about
intelligence and like who, like Jeffrey Epstein is the front for something else. That's what he
thinks about. I think about the weakness of grown men in the face of charismatic evil,
which is like for me directly is MIT. I didn't know, I actually was, I guess I was at MIT when
Jeffrey Epstein was just at the very end. He must have been there. I didn't know any of this,
but it really bothers me that nobody was able to see through this man. Because he's obviously,
what is also obvious to me is that he was very charismatic. Like, I mean, I try to think about
human nature from this perspective is directly, like we said, help one life.
Would I know a Jeffrey Epstein if he was in my life? Would I know evil when I saw evil?
Even if it's sitting across from you. Even, I mean, you, so exactly the evil laugh. Thank you.
It's a necronomicon.
Well, the thing I, I'm sure we'll talk about it. Maybe not. It doesn't really matter. We see things
you and I, Michael, very differently about a lot of things politically and so on. The reason I like
you a lot, the reason I like the people I do in my life is there's a warmth, there's a kindness,
there's a humanity underneath it all. I don't really care what you believe. I don't care.
Like, I don't care what your Twitter says. You know, it's easy to mistake your Twitter to indicate
that there's not a deeply human love for humanity in there. And that's why I'm detecting that. I
think I would be able to detect that, Jeffrey Epstein, I'm just imagining the T1000.
Detected. Yes. I imagine, I hope I would be able to not detect that Epstein lacks that completely.
Even if he's charismatic in the humor he has, even if he is charismatic in the expression of
curiosity for science, which he did, he was curious about like, not just like boring minutiae of
science, he was interested about the big questions in science, which I could see that become exciting
to scientists like, oh, wow, here's a person who's thinking big. That's always exciting.
When somebody goes into a room and thinks about like, how do we solve intelligence?
How do we travel faster than the speed of light? That's exciting to people, especially people
with money, because it's like, all right, so we might be able to actually do big things here.
But you could see through the bullshit, the deadness in the eyes. I don't know.
So I think about that because I feel like I have the responsibility for me as an individual
to detect evil. So I, do you know who Michael Allig is? Okay, this is going to be a whole
long, this is going to be a Lex clips, but this is a whole long story. So there was a scene in New
York in the 90s called the club kids. And they would go out to different night clubs at night.
They would all dress in really kind of crazy costumes. And the costumes are all like, like
goofy and like just like an angel. This was dressed like a nurse. There's a juvenile
aspect to it. They're all taking, you know, ketamine and ecstasy to all hours. This is kind
of rape culture was coming up in there. And the head of it, and in fact, there's a,
a clip on YouTube, I think it was the Jane Whitney show of the club kids and Gigi Allen.
Gigi Allen is a, you know, kind of punk rock performer, hard rock performer who passed away.
And Gigi Allen was very aggressive and like a crazy person. My friend once saw him in a concert
and he took a dump on stage, smeared it all over his face, grabbed the girl from the audience,
gave her a big kiss. And as she walked by him, she just went like this, like, excuse me,
like went to the bathroom. So the audience is screaming at Gigi Allen because he's very
visibly over the top. Whereas you got a bunch of these kids dressed in these silly costumes,
you guys just having fun. Well, the head of the club kids, Michael Allig ended up killing someone.
There was a kid called Angel Menendez who hung around with them. He would always have angel
wings and boots. One time they're at Michael's condo with another, with a drug dealer named
freeze. They got into a fight. So Angel got hit in the head with a hammer. They kill him.
What are we going to do with the body? They put it on ice in the bathtub. They had a party.
So everyone's going to the bathroom while Angel's body is there. Michael got,
they're like, all right, we got to take care of this. Michael got extremely high in heroin,
had like a cutlery from Macy's, sawed the body in pieces, put it in a box.
They took him into cab. The cab driver helped them throw the body into the river.
And then Michael starts walking around Manhattan wearing Angel's boots
and would tell people, oh, I killed Angel. Now, because he was a super effeminate
over the top, like he would pee in people's beer kind of guy, everyone's like, oh,
God, Michael, like you and your stupid pranks. But it was true. And he got caught.
And he got sentenced to jail. So I was in a store in Manhattan in Soho. And it was one of those
stores. We have like all sorts of things for sale. And I saw a painting and it said malice.
And I'm like, wait, what? And it was M. Alec. It was a Michael Alec painting. He had painted
while in jail. So my mom bought it for me for my birthday. I don't remember what birthday it was.
And I started writing him in prison. He was going to write a memoir called Aligula, which is clever.
And then I actually went to visit him. I'm like, I want to see what this person's like. Because
on one hand, he's king of New York nightlife, this goofy person. And it's also kind of ironic that
Gigi Allen is like, maybe he's gross. He's not killing anybody. He's probably going to count
off the stage and Michael Alec actually did kill someone and then bragged about it tongue in cheek.
So, but meeting him, he passed away last December on Christmas, actually, on Christmas 2020.
He was clearly a sociopath. And I'd never met a sociopath before. Now, a lot of times we'll read
these like, you'll take a Buzzfeed quiz, like, are you a sociopath? And it's like, oh, my feelings
weren't hurt when I was mean to someone. It's not a thin line between like, me and you and him.
It's a thick, thick line. Because when you're talking to someone like that, at least in this
specific case, he was being very friendly. He wasn't, and it's not like he was going to kill
anyone or as a threat to me. But there's that sense like something's really off here. And he
was talking to me about how after he had killed Angel, he would just talk about it because he
felt so much guilt. He just wanted to get caught. It's like, no, no, no, you what he was describing
wasn't guilt. He was describing just he didn't like the the knife over his head, like waiting to
get caught. I'm like, you don't even know what guilt is. So it was kind of like, oh, wow. So
as for Jeffrey, but the thing is, Michael Alec isn't was in a very low social position.
And the thing is, when someone is powerful, very high status, and they do something,
we are as kind of hierarchical animals, we kind of defer to their norms. So if you're at a party
with, let's suppose, either us, and it's like a Jeffrey Epstein party, and everyone at the party
is doing some sort of weird drug we've never heard of, we wouldn't really feel comfortable
judging them, because like their norms kind of become the norm for that space. The lesson for
me about Jeffrey Epstein, there's a lot of them, because I think this, to me, the biggest moment
was the Amy Rohrbach situation. Amy Rohrbach was caught on a hot mic, saying that they had all
the goods on him, they had all the names, and that Buckingham Palace call them, they killed the story
because they weren't going to get a Meghan Markle interview out of it. So that the willingness of
those in power to do the wrong thing for the flimsiest pretext, which I think was a big
important lesson, also the fact that no one at ABC had any consequences for this. In fact, the only
person who got in trouble for all this was someone who used to work at ABC, went to I believe CBS,
and they got fired from CBS because apparently they had access to footage at one point, even though
they weren't the ones who had leaked it. So whistleblowers are like the only, for example,
the case in Eric Garner, the guy who was selling Lucy cigarettes in New York City,
who was arrested, he had a heart attack or whatever it was on the way to jail, he died.
The only person, so the cops had a situation there, the only person who had gotten in trouble
because of that was the guy filming it, like he went to jail. So I think there is, there's a lesson
in terms of, we look at Julian Assange, right? There's a huge amount of power exercised by elites
to make sure that what is done in the cover of darkness remains in the cover of darkness.
And also Kevin McCarthy, who was currently the house minority leader, leader of the Republicans,
he wrote a letter to ABC News, like, you had this guy, maybe you couldn't call in the authorities,
but you could have leaked it to somebody, why hasn't anything come forward? Nothing happened
as a result of this. We also have to keep in mind that the longest serving Republican
Speaker of the House in history, Dennis Hastert, went to jail because of things related to
pedophilia and things like that. So as Russians, and this is something I think you and I've mentioned
before, Americans are very naive, often decreasingly so, about the nature of evil. They think an
evil person is someone who's like getting kickbacks or, you know, like the Cuomos are colluding,
something like that. I would hardly even call that evil. No, no, this is the sort of things
that are so depraved that you would never think about it in a million years in your own home.
You don't think in these terms. And I think they get off on doing things that if the average person
heard about it, the average person would be shocked because that gives them this sense of we're
above them, we're different from them. The rules don't apply to us. There's a lot to say here.
So what is the norm thing you said at a party? It's really interesting for an anarchist to say
that. Well, no, it's this. No, well, I know, I know. I'm not sorry. That came off as criticism.
I meant it as harsh criticism. No, I think about that a lot. Like, as, you know, I found myself
in situations where I'm invited to these kinds of parties where people have nice things,
and I find it deeply uncomfortable for that reason. I don't want to be sort of an activist
that goes in and ruins a party. That's, that's a, I think that's a, that's not the courageous act.
Neither is it courageous when everyone's doing some weird drug that you mentioned to join in,
I think. Courageous is more being your, remaining yourself, sticking to your principles calmly
in that room where everybody is doing the drug and just don't do the drug.
Yeah, sure. Don't make a scene about it, but also don't, don't do it. And I think
that little act of courage over time is the way you resist Jeff Epstein. That exactly the thing
you said is, is probably the situation where charisma works. So one charismatic person gets
a little crowd going and the crowd is everybody sort of establishes a norm at the little crowd.
And yes, there could be some dynamics that allow that norm to be established. Like you said,
like rich and powerful people might enjoy being rich and powerful and better than everybody
else kind of, kind of thing. But like I, especially for scientists, I thought they should have
integrity and courage enough to, to see through that, not again as an activist, like so you can
tweet about it, how courageous you are. But just literally, see, there's something off here.
There's something off here and I'm not going to participate.
I'm going to defend these scientists because something off, first of all.
You're always defending academia is disgusting.
It's my favorite thing. I think that first of all, this is going to sound like a joke and it's not.
I bet you 90% of those MIT scientists are on the spectrum. So everyone they're going to meet is
going to be off, right? So I'm sure part of their brain is like, okay, this person's weird.
This is just them being on the spectrum. Like the lights, but spectrum. I couldn't even finish
the joke. Okay, guys. Number two is off. We, we tend to, there's this poem. I forget who wrote it.
It was like Nick Cave or something. And it was describing like, I think it was Goebbels. Hair,
normal, height, normal, weight, normal. What do you expect? Horns, right? So when you meet someone,
you think something's off. There's going to be a bell curve of what that could be, right? It could
be that they're twitchy or maybe they're completely social. And then you have Jeffrey Epstein over
here. You're going to need a lot of evidence to be like, Oh, I feel something off there for this
guy's the head of an international, you know, sex trafficking ring. So yeah, you might be like, okay,
but at the same time, if their extended relationship is this guy is interested in my work,
he's going to fund my work, and I don't have to give him anything in return. He's clearly intelligent.
He's appreciating it. And being a scientist is a thankless job. I know what it's like as an author
when I was writing Dear Reader, the North Korea book, my friends are sick of hearing all these
North Korea anecdotes, because at a certain point it's like, okay, we get it. Just save it for the
book. And you know, you got to be in that lab, you're looking at the springtails, whatever it is
you're looking at, no one knows what a springtail is. I just disagree with you. So that'd be
interesting to draw the distinction between science and writing, because the scientific process
itself is fun as fuck. It's you're solving little puzzles. Sure. So like, in itself, it's fun. So
like, it's rewarding. Like the reason you go into science is you can continue really without a boss
to continue having fun and solving puzzles. That's, that's literally so like, unless you become cynical
and tired of the whole thing. So the, the people, the administration, or when you're running a large
lab, and you what you get sick of is the emails and the meetings and all that kind of stuff,
the actual act of being in the lab is still fun as fuck. If you allow it to be writing, I feel like
it's, there's more priority to publishing. Like, would you enjoy it, the tree falling in the forest,
would you still enjoy any of the books you've written if they never got published?
Not to the same extent that even close. Right. Right. I think that's the thing about science.
It's almost like you get a peek into the mysterious. Yeah, but this is okay. Let me,
this is where I'm coming from. Since moving to Austin, I bought 150, over 150 plants.
How are you doing the politician thing? Look, let me be clear. All right. It's not.
You are running in 2024. This is very interesting. I bought 150 succulents from my house. They're,
they're thriving here in Austin as they wouldn't have in Brooklyn.
You have a great video about it. Yeah. One of those plants I have is the photo I took on my
Instagram. There's no other photos on the whole internet. None of my friends care. Or they care
like ostensibly, but like, oh, that's cool. Like I have a better plant collection in my house than
like almost any botanical succulent collection than any botanical garden in America than probably
the Huntington and no one cares. This is what ego looks like, by the way. I can prove it to you.
No, I know, but you don't have to rub it in. Well, they have a big budget. I don't. So if I can put
it together, they should be able to. Right. So I can only imagine that a scientist who studied,
you know, the spiders that look like ants, like at a certain, like, oh, and this species does this
with the gender dimorphism, their friends are only going to care so much. So if you meet someone who
has a lot of money who now cares about ant spiders, it's going to be exciting.
It will be very exciting. But I just wanted to push back on the, I think the act itself
should be the biggest reward. I think you're always safe. We're talking about goodness being
a safe default. I think it's a good default for, for plants and for writing and for science
is to just enjoying the act, even if nobody cares. Okay, this is where this, okay, now I'm even,
now I'm wondering why I'm pushing back so hard and I realized what it was because
I've made this point several times and I'm glad I can make it again. There's this window of time
that happened in my life. And I know it happens to a lot of people when you're in your like 24 to
27, 28, right? So 21 to 24, like you still have your friends from college, so on and so forth,
right? But then it's kind of like a poker game. And, you know, every so often people cash out,
they're like, I'm out, I'm out, they get married, they get a job, they move. And if you are someone
who is a young ambitious creative, that window is a very rough one, because you're doing the right
thing, right? And you're not being, you know, drug addict, you're not being a philanderer,
not that those things are wrong, but just like you're playing by the rules, you're creating your
stuff, what you want to be known for, contribution you want to make for the world. And no one cares
and it gets very lonely. And there's this very emotional disconnect about how is it that I'm
creating and I'm working hard, and I'm making something happen, and it's just radio silence.
So that I don't think it's that easy when you're, you're the scientist, not me, when you don't have
any kind of external validation, humans only have so much fuel. Nothing worth having is easy,
Michael. By the way, yesterday, talked on the phone with a person, he said he was deeply moved
the first time you mentioned this age group of 24 to 27. And he's like, he, he's 26, he said.
And he feels the full responsibility of that and the excitement. So he left his like corporate
type of job to pursue something that he's really passionate about. And that, that was like,
you were an inspiration to him, which I was deeply saddened by that.
I also inspired Michael Alex.
The amount of mass murder, those that were inspired by you will eventually lead to is,
is truly horrifying. What were we talking about? So Jeff, one thing I wanted to ask you,
so let's put scientists aside, what about like, world leaders, Bill Clinton, your favorite person,
why would he fly with Jeffrey Epstein? Why would he interact with that guy?
I mean, don't you think that that's kind of the deal that I'm the president and I get
big and powerful people fly around their jets and that's the symbiotic relationship?
Yeah, but don't you also have a good BS detector? Like,
don't you have a good detector for people who just want to be in your presence?
Like, I already understand that there's people like this out there. Like,
there's people that kind of want to use me for stuff. And you mean Tim Dillon?
Tim Dillon. I love that guy. You guys met? We haven't met yet here. You haven't met?
Yeah. We met before in New York, but we had not since I moved here.
Yeah. So you should be able to detect that there's those people and there's the people
that have kindness in their heart, even if they can benefit from the interaction with you,
but they have like, they're good human beings. I feel like you want to,
you run into a lot of trouble if you surround yourself or have any people
that are manipulative. But I think you make a bad example because like,
let's look at Clinton and let's look at Obama, right? So Obama,
even though their politics are very close, I'd say in many ways,
Obama is apparent. We don't know. I don't know either of them. But to me,
it seems very apparent that he's very similar behind closed doors as you in front of the camp.
Yeah. Yeah. He's, he's baroque to me. Oh, yeah.
Yeah. He's good. Yeah. Clinton seems very clearly to be much more of a performer.
He's in front of the cameras. He puts on a roll, but behind the cameras,
he very much has a temper. He's known for that. He's much more of a lech.
What's that? Perfect. Oh, lech with an E.
L.E.T.C.H. Yeah. Oh, cool. Lech. Is that like a, that's a cool term. So I can use that on the
internet. Like you're a lech. Yeah, you can use that on the internet. You're a dirty lech.
Well, it's dirty. It's implied. Oh, so it's okay. Yeah. So being redundant. Yeah. It just feels
like he needs an adjective to give it more power. I'm sorry. So Clinton is a lech. Right. So you
can see how there's people who want to meet, you know, the surface, Bill Clinton, and I'm sure
that gets old for him because he has to be on. But then there's the good old boys where he could
be a pervert and this guy's like, yeah, I know what it's like. And then he feels like he's himself.
But I'm all speculating. I mean, I don't know what Bill Clinton is like, what was in it for him.
He certainly could afford private jets if he wanted to. There's no shortage of people who
want to fly around the world to give speeches, you know, at, you know. Can he satisfy the lech
within, without hanging out with the Jeffrey Epstein's of the world? Like, can he get, I mean,
this is the Monica Lewinsky question to me. I'm confused by all of this. Can he get
women in a legitimate way of like, not using his power, not hanging out with these shady,
rich people, but just like having a normal mistress like JFK. Well, JFK a lot. I know,
I understand that. But in a normal way, or I don't, I don't know enough. I don't understand
the Clinton psychology. First of all, the fact that you're hooking up with someone who's close
to your daughter's age to me, I think was is inherently disturbing. But she's an adult. So,
okay, that's not that, that, you know, beyond the pale. But also the idea that, oh, if I don't
physically fornicate with you, it's not cheating. Like that, whatever you tell yourself, or like,
if I don't ejaculate, it's not cheating. Like these rules that maybe it leads to some kind of
slippery slope, like you start not having the rules of who you fool. I mean, if you told your
wife, like, listen, it wasn't cheating, she only, you know, performed on me, you're going to say
this with a straight face. Like, do you at a certain point when something is so brazen, you
wonder if the person even has to believe it because who you fooling. But like, we started this,
this conversation with them, even there is a line between young women older than 18 and
young teens, like 12, 13 kids. Have you ever, when's the last, oh, because it's
different for you because you're at MIT. I was hanging out with Blair White, and she had a
couple of fans with her of hers, and they were like 22, 23. And they were like children to me.
Like, I'm like, to me, as someone who is in his late 60s, to look at these people as adults,
like, they look completely like kids. So that, of course, there's exceptions. Like,
I've interacted with a young 20, 20 year olds that are like, you're way more mature than I'll
ever be. Like the wisdom that comes out of them is quite fascinating. Visually, the energy and
the way they look, they look so young to me and the way they carry themselves. It was the idea
that my instinct was, let's tuck you in and read you a bedtime story, not let me like touch you
or something. It was just like, it was just wouldn't enter my head. So there's, but the thing is,
is it possible that in order to want to be the president, you have to be a crazy person?
That you have some kind of weird view on power. It could be a power thing, too.
Yeah.
Like, like you can get away with stuff.
Like, if I was Clinton's age, nothing about Monica Lewinsky to me would be attractive.
And also, I would just feel bad for her because I know she's going to catch feelings.
And it's kind of like...
Catch feelings. Yeah, sure.
This is virtual.
It's just like, why would I do this to this kid? For what? Just because I want to get some,
like, momentary pleasure. Come on.
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder. I'm sure she looked gorgeous to him in the moment.
Well, let me ask, we started talking about beauty. Who are you wearing?
So as a model, you usually don't have a shirt on when you're modeling.
So it's nice to see you dressed up today.
Nice and warm.
This is because so for those who don't know, Russians don't celebrate Christmas,
obviously the Soviet Union Christmas was illegal.
No Thanksgiving, basically no major holidays where everyone gets together.
This is the one holiday.
Yeah, New Year's.
It's the one holiday.
Instead of, I remember as a kid, instead of Santa Claus, we have Diedmeros,
who's the same thing basically.
It's like Android and iPhone. It's like a cheap version of Christmas.
He's got this girl with him. She's like Snow White or whatever.
And Russian kids, they go to sleep on December 31st and they wake up
January and they have a present under their pillow.
And I remember as a kid, this happened once and it just blew my mind, you know what I mean?
It's just like, I went to bed, my dad's like, oh, you know, you're going to have
Diedmeros is going to bring your present if you've been a good kid.
I'm like, I think I was a good kid.
But you don't even remember a year of your life when you're four.
You remember like two weeks.
You remember those moments.
Yeah. And then I woke up and there was a present and I fell out and I was,
it just blew my mind.
And that building is still there.
1461 Sherpa Parkway in Brooklyn. And it's just also funny.
What I really like about kids, you know, being an uncle now is kid logic
because they have very little bit of data, but they're using logic to make sense of it.
And sometimes it gives them the completely wrong conclusions for the completely right reasons.
I remember, you know, my bedroom as a kid was right off the kitchen
and I'd be scared the dark a little bit so they'd leave the light on the kitchen while I went to
sleep. And at the same time, my parents had told me, you don't leave the lights on the house.
It costs money waste electricity, right?
So I would be worried because I'm like, oh my God, my parents leave the lights on the kitchen
all night. And now it's costing them so much money, not realizing that, you know,
five minutes after I'm out, obviously they're turning the lights off.
But like in my kid logic, this was a concern of mine.
Yeah. And memories work that same way. I have a collection of memories that are stitched together
logically somehow, but they also don't really make sense. There's a few defining things.
So I grew up in Russia and experienced a lot of new years in Russia. There's a lot of incredible
things about that tradition that just warms my heart. So one, as a kid, you mentioned these
kind of stories. That's the one night of the year that kids are allowed to be adults
in the following way, like in kid logic. You're allowed to stay up all night.
Oh yeah, okay. Those, as late as you want, which actually ends up being, you're not used to.
Eleven. Right, you're out.
You crash. But no, you get to, you know, two, three, four at night, you stay up and when you get to
witness, it's almost like Alice in Wonderland goes into this world. You get to witness what
does the adult world really like? Now, obviously it's not an actual adult world.
Marryment, like laughing, fighting, arguing, but also like in our case, like singing and
like, yeah, arguing like philosophical stuff, but also like, if I may, how would I describe it?
This is also probably a little bit Russian culture, but like flirtation in all of its forms,
meaning like men and women just being like, because they dress up. Yeah, yeah.
It's like, it's, it's joy. It's like, you get to show off like dresses, whatever you got,
you show it off, this is fun. And then men too, just like friends, laughing, like arguing, just
showing off the best they got with delicious food. Obviously that there's a Thanksgiving
element there where there's just so many, just you bring out all the traditional stuff,
the, the, yes, salad, just everything, just the full thing with the desserts and obviously the
vodka, a lot of vodka. And at the time, so this is the Soviet Union, like the biggest stuff,
and this is so sad that these are the things that I remember is like Coca Cola. Oh yeah.
Like American, like that, I'll probably kill somebody for Dr. Pepper. It's so fascinating that
you take it for granted, sort of the results of capitalist society, the material things that
are created, but that was the ultimate happiness is to experience this new thing, sugar, I don't know,
you know, there's a scarcity. There's like communist colon check Republic.
So basically they try to rip off Coke. Yeah. And it's just like,
like they just threw whatever they could together. And it was a very poor knockoff,
as you can imagine, I forget what it's called. And all the Czech people right now are getting
very angry at me because I can't think of it, but they have it now. And the slogan is good or weird.
So it's like this. So they kind of reclaimed this kind of hipster soda. Yeah. Oh, that's awesome.
It's almost like a parody. Right. Yeah. But I think the thing I really remember is the camaraderie,
like the love for each other and neighbors too. Like you and I are neighbors now. We don't see
each other that often. I hope that changes, but a lot of it is also me. I'm just a deep introvert.
You're also the hardest working person I know. Yeah. So it's time, but you know,
like, it's not like I'll go in the middle of the night at like 4am and go to 711 and just sit there
sipping a slurpee for an hour thinking about life. It's not like I'm always working. Yeah,
I don't know. What I mean is like you get to meet your neighbors and you get to experience their
highs and their lows and you get to bitch about life, about government, about corruption, about
the unfairness of life together. Well, it's also, I think, what people don't appreciate as Americans
is it's very rare in Russia to have a safe space. Yeah. So you know that January 1st,
no one's going to snitch on you. You know, they're not going to be informants probably,
so you can vent and, you know, that's the thing with people in totalitarian countries.
You have to have the public facing persona and then behind closed doors is very different.
It all comes out. I also remember the arguments and I've been going on Clubhouse recently into
Russian rooms. Oh, Jesus. Well, just to practice Russian. And they, it's so beautiful to watch.
I mean, Clubhouse is a very specific collection of Russian people. Maybe it's a little bit
political, but, and they're a little bit older. And it's interesting to watch how much they love
to argue. Russian love to argue. And so like it will be literally, you could think of it as a
nonlinear dynamical system, okay, from an engineering perspective. Whenever any positive
topic comes up, you could feel the skepticism and then wait a minute, this is not good.
And they'll start like, perturbing it until you're like, they'll find some way to say,
like, come on now, that is the dumbest thing I've ever heard. And then it goes back into argument.
It's so fun to watch because in one sense, you could see it as negative. In another,
you could see it as free to express yourself because it feels like you can solve a lot of
problems by allowing yourself to just be emotional, both emotional and say hard truth and all those
kinds of things without like, without prodding yourself on the back about it. But also,
it just sort of those Russian rooms make me realize how constrained American speeches,
how careful people are in the way they express it, even the Michael Mouses in the world.
You're constantly being like nuanced. There they just say crazy shit. Oh yeah. And then
they correct themselves and make fun of themselves and they completely shift opinions a minute
later. And it's chaos. Yeah. And it's, I mean, it's beautiful. So I love that that culture is
funny given the current regime in Russia, like how that's coupled with how people are talking and
yeah, I don't know. And I have those memories of childhood of friends that I had of just having
that true freedom of talking and somehow that leads to deep bonds together. When the life,
when you're poor, when life is, has a lot of elements that are unfair, when the government
is corrupt, there's sort of, it's just, especially in the Soviet Union, there's uncertainty about
the future, all of it, you just get closer together, like penguins huddling together in the cold,
like that March of the Penguins movie, that I don't know. The friends I've gotten there,
like, I get emotional every time I kind of think about those friends because it was so close.
That friendship was so fucking close. But I just really hate the Russian cynicism.
Well, I know you do. And I actually disagree with you about it. You see it as cynicism. I see it as
waves on top of the water, like surface cynicism and the depths as I see the beauty of the Russian
soul. So we, yes, that cynicism can negatively affect a lot of people. I think you've talked
about as a parent being cynical about the world and then you have dire negative consequences
on your children. They become cynical. They don't ever take big risks or take on bold things.
And I have those arguments because the cynicism is exhausting, it's destructive, it's anti creative.
But so in their perspective is this is what the Russian folks would say. Well, yes, that's our
role, like being cynical is being reasonable about the world. But it's not. It's completely
unreasonable. It's a complete lie. No, I know. But their argument is, yes, but we're giving you
this force and it's your job to resist against it. So it's a test. I love the idea that if you're
going to be creative and innovative, you don't have enough up against you. Yeah, exactly. This
is exactly it. It's not hard enough already that I want to be an author. Now you got to be like,
well, let me just put some fire ants on top of it. So I just want to separate. I agree with you
that the cynicism is bad and destructive. But the idea that life is suffering and
thinking from that as a first principle, I think there's a lot of beauty to be discovered through
that. So there's a cynicism and then there's horrible message. Life is suffering. No, not.
Well, yeah, I mean, Camus. Camus doesn't think that.
Now we're going into definitions of suffering then, because absurd. Life is absurd and life
is suffering are not even close to the same concept. Well, then you're just defining the
terms differently. Well, that's because they're different terms. Well, it's always love and beauty.
But so let's define. Okay, you're selling if your baby's in the crib, like with a fever,
you're like, oh, that's absurd. No, it's the kid's suffering. It's not the same.
So yes, starvation. You've been for white pill research and a lot of actual specifically defined
suffering. Sure. But also a lot of wonderful things. Right. Yeah, yeah. But the word suffering
can encompass more than just specifically starving. And it could, it can encompass,
like a lot of the philosophers talk about it, it encompass like philosophical suffering,
the fact that there isn't, if you're not careful, life can appear meaningless,
you can fall into a nihilistic view. It's difficult to have the responsibility of freedom
to act in this world, because you can fuck up in so many different ways. And then life is seemingly
unfair in the sense that good things happen for no apparent reason and terrible things
happen for no apparent reason. Like what, you know, it's the old religious question of why does evil
happen in the world? Why do terrible things happen in the world? There's a book called Six
Word Memoirs, right, where all these different personalities are awesome. Were you in it? No.
I'm in it with, so you had to basically write your autobiography in six words and mine was
good things happen to bad people. You see, there you go. There's humor. Yes. That's your
way of dealing with the suffering. But I don't think life is, if life was suffering, we wouldn't
be able to have happiness. No, out of suffering, happiness is born. So like it's, it's the ups
and downs of life. And what it means like, I don't, this, I just, I don't agree at all
that you need to suffer in order to be happy. I agree you have to work hard, but that's not
the same thing. Yeah. All right. So the way I'm using suffering, I think a lot of them use
suffering is the way you use like gravity. So in order for the roller coaster to work, you need
gravity. There needs to be a force that bring you down. Sure. And that same way, there's
like, you have to resist the natural pull of nature that wants to destroy you.
No, nature wants you to, nature's indifferent, but we have the capacity because we're blessed
with minds and we're blessed with friends. Yeah. To transcend nature. Yeah. No, I know,
but I think it's a word that captures something about life that there's no reason to it,
that is absurd. I think to me, oftentimes the way I think about the word suffering is
synonymous with absurdity. This is not suffering, but this is absurd. I just noticed there's a box
with a big bow on it next to you. What's in the box, Michael? It's your present. So it's your
present for New Year's. Can we open it? Yeah, sure. What's in the box? It's going to take,
and you brought up suffering. This is going to be very unpleasant. I packed it myself.
Yeah, there's a whole process in there. So there's three presents in there.
Lex, I'll read the card first. Okay.
Something about opening presents, like tearing stuff, makes me feel like, because like I just
tore this sheet of paper, so it'll never be the same again. It's entropy. It's entropy times,
times. You've got a powerful voice. You've got a powerful voice.
To Lex, thank you. Maybe I should read the other card first. You've got a powerful voice.
Listening to what you have to say always puts me in a hopeful place. I feel like this is building
up to something. You show me how change can happen when you face the world with pride,
confidence, and a voice that can't be silenced. Keep speaking up. The world is listening. Yeah.
There's no cynicism in this card. No, this is about, this is New Year's. This is all about
hope and joy. To Lex, I'm seeing the binary. To Lex, thank you for setting the path for me to
move to Austin. Zero, one, zero, zero, one, zero, zero, one, zero, one, zero, zero, zero, zero, one, one, one, zero, one, zero, one. Michael Mals. Yeah.
Putting tears to my eyes. Thank you, brother. My pleasure. Let's get to the present.
Okay. It's a, it's a PC box. This is very promising. It better not be sex toys. There's
nothing, this is all, there's nothing inappropriate at all. Why would it? Why would sex toys be
inappropriate? Because you're, because you're a version.
You got to bring a knife to a party.
How clever is it to put it in a PC box? Well, I had it. I just got a new PC.
Okay. There's also a can. Yep. Open the can first. Open the can.
Do you wrap this yourself? That scared the shit out of me.
Go get back in the can. That actually stayed in there. That's magic.
You just got to cut the string. No.
You're the most beautiful troll of all. I love you so much.
This is awesome.
Did I, did it not work? Pick it up. Oh, it didn't work.
There's a terrifying springy feeling to this thing. I don't want to open this.
I need to move some side. I hate you so much. What?
Oh, is it the other way? No, just pick it up.
I can't believe I fell for that. I hate you so much.
Wrenches are my favorite. I can't believe I fell for that. Okay.
And there's box number three. It's like a matryoshka. I can't believe that worked. Yeah.
I wanted a box to open all these gears to fall out, but you can't get it. You can't get them.
Yeah. Does that really grind your, your grind your gears?
Why am I scared? Okay.
There's another box.
This leads to my death. No, no, this isn't, this is, there's a story behind it.
Can't believe that worked. Oh God, that's so good. All right.
All right. No springs, no weapons, no wrenches.
Okay. So let me tell you the story behind that toy.
Tonka robots that turn into vehicles. So when you, there were, when I was a kid,
you had transformers, but for us poor people, you had GoBots, right? So the GoBots,
there were four main characters for the good guys. It was leader one, small foot turbo and scooter.
And what was annoying is when you had the action figures,
you couldn't find the ones that were on the TV show. And I was a big GoBots fan as a kid.
And I went once to the Toys R Us in Caesars Bay in Brooklyn with my grandfather. My grandfather
was always very lucky. Like just good things happen to him every so often. And I went there,
remember very vividly, they must have just unpacked, just loaded the shelves and how they had the
shelving, it would be like, like a grid, you know, you'd have like, it was like one, two, three,
or five, five rows and like five by five. And I remember it was like two up and then you have
to do, you have to sit by the side and kind of sort through them. And with the GoBots,
each package had a picture of the different figures. So the packaging wasn't uniform.
And they just had scooter there. She was just sitting there. And I was like, holy crap. So
that feeling when you're a kid and you find that just sitting on the shelf is right there.
It's just, it was such this. Wait, is this that scooter? No, I have it though. But that one is
for you. I thought if you want to put it next to your other robots, open it up. I can open it up.
Yeah, yeah, it's for you. And that way it's that symbol of joy when you have when you're a kid,
when you find something you really want. I think it just is really like when people look at it,
they'll be like, don't be hopeless. I'll open this carefully later. No, do it.
There's no way to open it carefully. Kids don't open stuff carefully. You rip that crap open.
But then you break it and you cry. That's what happens when you're a kid. I never did that.
Okay. Me neither. I never cried, but never got presents either.
That is so cool. All right, scooter.
You symbolize childlike discovery. Right?
The poor, the poor man's robot. The poor man's transformers.
I think there's instructions on the back how to transform her.
To her? I only found out as an adult that it was supposed to be a girl. Yeah.
Wow. This changes everything. No, give me here. Let me show you. It looks better when she's
transformed. What? No, there's levels to that statement. Oh, how does it do like this? Let
me see if I remember how to do it. Because I have this as a kid. Arms out. The thing is,
these are easy to break, I remember. Is it like this? No. Oh, the front comes out.
Oh, let me see this. Oh, this comes up. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So that's that the arms go.
I'm having visions of like baby Michael. I can't do it. Okay. I can't do it. I can't figure it out.
Wow, you're right. She looks so much better transformed. All right. I'm going to follow
the instructions in a bit and I'll leave this failed project of yours. Oh, there's a wheel out.
Look, I don't like this in between form. Well, this is how it's going to be. Okay.
Okay. Because we're going to be accepting of the transformation that takes time. Okay. I got,
I saw this little thing when I was walking on Congress and it says resist. It's a bracelet.
I mean, think of you. The reason I got it is because there's two bracelets. So one said lucky
fuck and the other one said resist. Now I first saw resist and I'm like, and then I saw the lucky
fuck and I realized I'm a lucky fuck to find a relevant. It makes me think of you. This is very
nice. Resist the powerful. That's true. I saw this somewhere. The oh yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. This has to do with, in terms of resist, you often bring up the book Machiavellians by
James Burnham. And so I was looking through, I was reading different parts of it. It's a tricky
read. It's a little bit, but there is a ebook Kindle version now that I've been working through.
There's, I think there's an actual audio book too. Anyway. Yeah. I just bought some, the Machiavellians
is James Burnham's analysis of four thinkers that he regards as the Machiavellians. It was
Gaitana Moscow, Vilfredo Pareto, George Sorrell, and I'm blanking on the Moscow Pareto Sorrell
and George Michel. And I just got Pareto's autograph in the mail this week.
So he talks about freedom and liberty. This interesting line that I'd like to get your
opinion on in terms of resist and in terms of liberty. There's no one force, it goes, quote,
there's no one force, no group and no class that is the preserver of liberty. Liberty is preserved
by those who are against the existing chief power. Oppositions which do not express genuine
social forces are as trivial in relation to entrenched power as the old court jesters.
So, I mean, the question here is, can liberty, are you comfortable with that definition
or that view of liberty, of freedom, that at its highest ideal is expressed through the
resistance to the powerful as opposed to existing in its own? I think his point, broadly speaking,
which I agree with, is the only thing that can work to mitigate power is other power, that its
talk is cheap and persuasion has very limited efficacy. It's like if there's a burglar, right,
and one person will give you a speech about property rights and you shouldn't be in this
person's house and the other person has a gun, you know, it's clear which is going to be more
persuasive. Yeah, but can't you just be free without the struggle, without this conflict?
What I'm uncomfortable with this view is how closely it links freedom and conflict. Like,
why does this world have to have conflict for you to be free? I mean, it's, in part of it,
it's just emphasis. Well, you weren't just saying suffering is what leads to joy?
See, and now you're in agreement. Thank you. I just did that just so you can come around
and agree. I win. Next topic. Wow, I'm playing 3D chess here. Okay. This is New Year's.
This is now December 31st. I think that's how it works, but in 1973. Okay. We recorded this
before you were born. Oh, no, years after you were born in the 60s. You look great for 60s,
early 60s or short. Okay. What five things, let's say, are moments in 2021? Are you grateful for
or people? Just, I don't know, things, moments, beautiful experiences,
profound essences of the year. Like, looking back, what are the cool things that it just
Personally or socially?
Do you exist like in a platonic way socially? I mean, oh, in your personal life?
Yeah. Anything. You're both, you're now Michael Malis. You exist as a social entity
and a personal human being and all of it, the whole thing. Like, what stands out to you about
2021? The fact that for the first time in my life other than college, I moved to a new city.
That was a very big one. And there's no part of me that regrets it or misses New York.
So that was a very big deal for me. What do you, about this move, about Austin itself,
but maybe the move itself, maybe just the act of moving, what's great about it to you?
The fact that I had forgotten what it's like to have a huge social network, which I had in New
York before people started falling away and then it really escalated as a result of
de Blasio and the COVID restrictions. So to have a big crew here is something that was very
validating. The thing that's also exciting about Austin is that Austin is not a particularly big
town. It's not a particularly great town. But everyone here, at least in the circles I travel
in, is kind of a refugee from their towns. So there is this sense of camaraderie. There is
this sense of we're building something together. Back in New York, when you meet someone, it would
be like, who is this person? Why am I talking to them? Like, are they a normie? Are they going to
be weird? And here there's very little of that. I think there's much more sense of trust with one
another when you meet new people. So that's something that's really exciting about. Like,
I've been introducing all my friends to each other and everyone's been hitting it off like
gangbusters. It's really great. So I really enjoy that about Austin. I'm enjoying the weather, the
space. You're at Kerouac and you have his stuff. I have. On the road, I read. I read a biography of
him. I don't know if it was on, I think it was on the road where he, he talked about that feeling
when you go into some place, you're leaving a place and you go somewhere else. And the place
you're leaving disappears behind you and all the people and all. Like, you just think about that
life and it's forever gone. And there's some inkling of that where you get to realize your
almost mortality because, okay, that's a chapter and there's not many more. And it was a beautiful
chapter, but now onto the next chapter. Is there a melancholy feeling there? No, it's the opposite.
I feel like I've been giving a new lease on life because I didn't realize to what extent there was
this subtext of hopelessness in New York. And also people who, in New York, you don't appreciate,
or you appreciate it consciously, but you can't escape it emotionally. How much the winters
get to you psychologically. It's tough. It gets dark so early, it gets cold, you can't walk around.
Like, that's the thing that's fun about, or what's fun about New York is that, you know,
when the weather's warm, you can walk for an hour and just enjoy the sunshine and there's
a lot to see and do. But in the winter, you don't have any of that. It's brutal. And here, it's just,
so that is something. There's no melancholy at all. Well, that's because there's,
can we say something beautiful about New York? Not the way it is now, but the way it...
I could go on for days about how great New York was.
What did you learn about human civilization and just life that was beautiful from New York?
I learned that there's a lot of really unique special people out there who are doing their
little part to move the envelope and make the world a better place. And that when you have a
city where they're all there together at the same time, that really moves the world. And I'm
thinking of Paris in the 20s and Harlem in the 20s and New York in the 70s and LA in the late
60s and San Francisco especially in late 60s, things like this. They really punch above Detroit
certainly at its heyday. They punch above their weight and just really kind of Philadelphia in
1700s. Things really start happening and that ripples throughout the world.
You think Austin has a chance to be a Paris in some way?
Yes, because again, it wasn't all of Paris. It was the left bank of Paris and Gertrude Stein
and Hemingway and all of them in a little area. So when you read these history books, these scenes,
it's like 50 people in a 10 block radius. These aren't these huge Davos conventions.
Okay, so the move, the big move, what else? What else stands out to you? Again, both personally and
socially, like zooming in and zooming out. I did a book with the UFC fighter and I was making the
point that he was a nine time world champion that I would never be as good at my job as he was at
his. And then when I dropped Anarchist Handbook in May and it was the top nonfiction book on
Amazon for like most of the day, I was like, oh, I'm the top nonfiction writer in America
just for today. I was like, oh crap, okay. So I guess I was wrong. That was a major deal. I was
still shocked and delighted. By the way, congratulations. I'm truly happy for you, man.
I'm so proud. But it's also, I'm proud because these are people who had points of view and they
didn't have it easy and they fought for what they believed in. And insofar as I get to
rescue them to some extent from the dustbin of history and say these people really mattered
and they really are worth hearing, that I love. I love stuff like that. I was talking to a friend
of mine, Topher, like a year ago, because we're in a weird position with what kind of jobs we have.
So I'd be talking on my live streams about people like Candy Darling or Wallace Thurman.
Like these are not household names at all. And then I'd be like proud of myself that I'm the
one who brings them to some sort of more prominence. And then you want to tell yourself, well, get
over yourself who you think you are. But no one else is talking about these people or very few.
So to be able to kind of give them some kind of stature and platform that they deserve,
I think is, I love being able to do that. So you have a strong voice yourself and to
sort of join them in. It's like John Lennon, joining in with the Beatles is like a chorus,
of very different views on anarchism. It's celebrating the individuals, it's celebrating
the idea. And you are, I think will be remembered as a powerful philosophy yourself, but like you're
almost taking just the humility of being in a room with powerful minds together in one book.
It's cool. Yeah. And that these people mattered and they had a unique perspective. And as I said
in the introduction to the book, I remember I was in college and we were studying bioethics and there
was like a graph in the book. And one part says, antinomianism, which was the view that
at one side said legalism, right, the two extremes. Legalism is what is legal is defined by the
government or what is moral is defined by the government. And one said, antinomianism, which
is nothing stands above moral law. And then there was like, well, since no one believes in this,
the answer is something to the other side. It's like, well, why is it on the charge no one believes,
if it has a name, someone believes in it, you know, so, you know, anarchism is a word that's
bandied about and in a dismissive way. And it's like, you don't have to like me or agree with
what I'm saying, but you can't pretend that they weren't Tolstoy, you're going to tell me Tolstoy,
doesn't nobody's talking about completely. He's in there. He was an anarchist. So
it was, it was a big accomplishment. It was really cool to get a chance to
do the audio book. You did an incredible thing, which has got a bunch of really cool people
to read a lot of interesting varied people. Yeah. So what I did for the audio book, which I
don't like the idea that hard work is inherently good, because sometimes being lazy is actually
the right choice. So I'm like, wait a minute, why am I reading all 23 chapters when it's 23
different authors? Does it make sense? So I hit my roll at X and I had different people read
different chapters to make it sound literally like you have the different voices in the book.
Thank you very much. You did my, because I was going to read my chapter. Wait a minute,
like all the other authors being read by somebody else. Let's have Lex read mine.
The one chapter I am most moved by is Lauren Chen. She's a podcast as well. She's expecting
now. So we wish nothing but the best for Lauren and Liam and the babby. There's a chapter there
by this guy named Charles Robert Plunkett called Dynamite. And he's advocating for
making bombs and killing people, killing, you know, the forces of capitalism.
And Emma Goldman, it was published in her essay while she was in lecture tour, and she was just
like, why is this in here? This is, this is just really going to make us look bad, so on and so
forth. And when you're dealing with any kind of, you know, HL Makin has that quote about
every rational man must at times be tempted to spit on his hands, hoist the black flag,
and begin slitting throats. So I wanted to talk, sound like the seductive
aspect of violence. Like that's the problem. Like when you're dealing with terrorism, when
you're dealing with political violence, to be able to understand how people can fall for this,
how people can be persuaded to think, this is a good idea that I'm going to make some dynamite
and throw it into this crowd and kill, you know, police officers and innocent people
possibly in the service of, you have to, it's easy to say all they're all crazy, but they're not,
you know, even not most people who are crazy don't do these things, you know. So to have a woman
read that chapter, and I told her kind of read it like a phone sex operator, because I wanted to
have that siren song of like, so you can understand why this calls out to people who are in the rope,
the people who are like marginalized. And she did such a superb job with that chapter.
That's such a beautiful vision. Yeah, because violence, that's violence is part of human history
to a degree that it must be seductive. It must be, there must be a strong pull. Like it's not
insane people. There's something probably deep within our nature that craves violence.
And then when there is charismatic leaders that inspire that, and revolution plus violence,
that, I could see that being extremely seductive to us. Like when you're truly suffering in your
current situation, whatever it is, you're being oppressed by governments or being oppressed by
the powerful, violent revolution is probably there's something deep within us that longs for that.
And also this kind of the Jelaine Maxwell to Jeffrey Epstein, right? You need that woman to
be like, no, no, this is okay, honey, come along. It's not a big deal. Don't listen to what your
parents told you. They're just prudes. It's a siren song. What do you think about Jelaine Maxwell,
the trial and so on? Again, maybe the interesting story there is about the coverage of the trial.
So like the story is more complex and interesting than the actual horrific acts themselves.
So to me, I don't, maybe I'm not knowledgeable enough, but to me, she's also truly evil. I don't
know where to, maybe you can help me to figure out who is more evil. The, just like you said now,
the person says it's okay. It's okay. That helps the evil doer or is it the evil doer themselves?
I don't know, but I think she's a, she scares me more than Jeffrey Epstein somehow.
There's people like that in the world too. I had like a Twitter poll. Do you think it's more
evil or less evil to kill someone because you've been paid to do it? And people, the winning answer
was more evil. And I said it was less because I think in that case, you can kind of check out,
you could be like, this isn't my, I'm just doing a job. I don't, you know, you kind of can, I think
in a sense, if you have a certain mindset, like intellect to remove yourself from the situation,
I'm just a conduit. When you were talking, I haven't been following her case that, that much.
That's cause you mostly watch CNN and CNN is not covering it. Well, I think my broader point would
be people who are untouchable and who know they're untouchable do much worse things than those of us
who aren't that way can appreciate. Like I'm, I was just talking about on Twitter about Rosemary
Kennedy. She was one of JFK's sisters. It's not clear whether she was developmentally disabled or
had like depressive mental illness. There was something clearly off with her to some capacity.
And at age 23, they gave her a lobotomy. And the thing with a lobotomy is you have to be
conscious. You don't, they don't put you under her. So you have to be counting backwards while
their scalp was in your brain and they stopped, but they stopped, they did too far. She became
mentally like a two year old, you know, never had bladder control for the rest of her life,
couldn't really talk or walk. And when that happened, they just put her away to some home
and they never mentioned her again, or they didn't tell the brothers or sisters where she went.
The lobotomy was only revealed in 1987. And they pretended, Oh, she's a, you know,
in this home for kids with special needs. And it's just like, like that to me is very,
very scary that someone could, you know, do this to their people. I saw people respond,
they go, that was, you know, cutting edge technology at the time, haha. But I'm like,
I don't think that that was really done that, that frequently or be hearing more about it,
all these, you know, botched lobotomies. And my understanding is lobotomies are
very hard to, like you, they would want to do something like a mass murder or like,
like if someone's really bad, like if the person's left an invalid, like who cares kind
of situation, but you're dealing with something like this, like she's not killing people. She's
not assaulting people. She's just difficult because she's making your, your vaunted family look bad.
So, um, so that's to you, that's, what is it? Like psychopathy or something like that? Like,
you don't care about, you just, you, you do horrific things and you don't really care.
I can't diagnose Joe Kennedy, but what I would say, like, of a Jolaine Maxwell, I can't empathize
because I don't understand, first of all, even in a positive sense, I don't know what it's like to be
grooming my son to be the president and lost, you know, the other son in war. I don't know what
that's like. Uh, I don't know what it's like to be so wealthy. Like I have, you have to go
get Joe Kennedy credit because a lot of what he was fighting for was to allow, you know, Irish people
and Catholic people acceptance into like high society. And he was up against a lot of pressure
with that. And he's like, I'm going to, you know, screw these people. I'm going to be recognized
and we're going to make, make people recognize. So there's something to be said for that. But
I mean, I, I can't relate to people like him. Yeah. But I mean, that like is just terrifying.
Like the, I mean, one of the big reasons I'm an anarchist is like when you have someone who has
that sense of amount of power over somebody else, a lot of times they're going to do bad things
and have no consequences. Do you think, uh, in a Jolaine Maxwell case and Epstein case,
do you think they were trying to blackmail people like trying the, what the conspiracy
theories kind of describe, that's probably not too far away from reality. Did they intentionally
try to put powerful people in compromising situations so that they can basically get more
and more power? Yeah. I think that was a Vanity Fair piece that you're referring to or fortune.
Oh, sorry. I'm just referring to a general concept. Oh, there was, so there was an article
that broke this down because this article is either fortune business week, Vanity Fair,
I don't remember, a major, major reputable outlet. And they were, they made the reporter,
made the point, they asked around and they go, this guy's a billionaire or extremely wealthy at
least. No one I know ever traded with him. Like, where's his money coming from? There's no, there's
no paper trail. So they're like, okay, if it's not trading and trades are public often, you know,
where's this money coming from? And it's also like, why are all these people allowing Epstein to be
their business manager when he has no kind of track record to show for it? So the hypothesis was
he would get people into uncompromising situations with underage girls, secretly film it, and then
he would, you know, blackmail them accordingly. Well, I guess that's the question. That would make
sense. I know it makes sense, but I also see a lot of evidence that he's just very charismatic in a
room. So, and I've also seen, you know, that's how human connections get made, like business deals
get made. Yeah, but how, where's his money coming from? Oh, like they rich people without blackmailing,
just like him close, like him as a friend. I'm not arguing that. Like, okay, I like Jeff Epstein.
Make sure you pull that quote. Yes. I'm a business person. I like Jeff Epstein. Michael Malis. I
love Jeff. Like or love? Love. I'm in love with. This escalated quickly. I'm gonna hand over him
to be my money manager to have 20% of my estate fine. Yeah. Where is he making the money for
that 20%? That's the thing that there's no paper trail, have him trading or anything. So I can
understand. Oh, I see. Yeah. Interesting. What were your 2020 favorite moments? You mean 2021?
Yeah, 2021. Yeah, yeah. Clearly, it's just laying Maxwell trial. It just really stands out to me.
It's very moving, which is why I bring it up. No. Moving here. So moving here. But for me,
I think we actually didn't cover that with you. And I'd love to get your comment.
Because you said it's the first time in your life you moved. So it's not just about the place you
go to. It's the actual act of moving is also a leap. Oh, yeah. The decision was that I'm going to
give away my salary at MIT. So stop taking salary, give away the group. So students,
normal research, the grant funding, and still keep an MIT affiliation just because our friends
and colleagues, they're still doing research, but giving away really primarily is the source
of money. So no salary. And let it go to zero. Let my bank account go to zero. And take a leap
in San Francisco or elsewhere. And as COVID broke out, and a lot of people started talking to me
about San Francisco, about the cynicism there, and I'll go there. And there was a kind of,
so it's not all the woke stuff and all that kind of things, which is also a problem. It's less
about dreaming about a big future, about building a big future, and more about some kind of identity
politic battles that they're just, you could say some some aspect in the positive light is important,
but in a place like Silicon Valley, to me, the most important thing is to do big things. And
for that to be most of the conversation. And so that cynicism was there. And then I went to
look at Austin and Austin was the opposite. Yeah, it's the optimism. And you have people like
as I talked to, as Elon was the optimistic about making this the capital of artificial
intelligence and technology and so on. And Mr. Joe Rogan, now just the optimism about
making this the cultural capital of the world of, I mean, specifically comedy, but like,
it just radiates from them, just the excitement. And I've seen not many people of that nature in
my life. And when I see that in their eyes, that engine, that fire of wanting to create something
special about the place. First of all, those people rarely fail. That's first of all. And
second of all, that's contagious. It's contagious. It's very contagious. And so all that combined,
for me, 2021 was the the actual leap of taking the leap saying, all right, well,
I'm actually going to do this. So not just giving away the salary, not giving away all
that, but the whole thing. That's it. You just move to a place. There's an empty building.
And you're moving into it. And this is a new life. And that leap, I don't know,
it's a scary leap to take. Because I've taken that leap many times in my life. And this is where
parents and all those kinds of cynicism is really destructive. Because from a cynical
perspective is, you know, I worked at Google. So why leave Google? There's a very high paying
salary that you can have Google. Then MIT, why leave MIT? Like, it's MIT. This is you've always
dreamed about, like, why do you get a PhD? Yeah, you've loved MIT. You're like, why leave MIT?
I mean, this is the same process I've gone through with a lot of things in life. Like,
you've been saying every single stage and you need that. You need friends, you need support groups
and all those kinds of things that are extremely important. But in the end, it's about taking the
leap. And for me, 2021 was this leap. And to me, that one of the most beautiful things you can do
in life is to take those leaps. And that's something that I think is no longer a thing in New York.
There's no sense of hope. You don't go to New York now. If there's been such an assault and
intentionally or otherwise, maybe it's inevitable, they didn't have a choice.
But there's been such an assault and creativity and small business in New York that no one,
very few people who are in New York right now think things are going to get great soon. Whereas
here, I feel it's every day is just something exciting is going to happen. And that's part
of the culture and how the conversation goes. It's just invoked to be cynical in New York and
San Francisco. I hope it changes because what I love about New York and what I love about Austin
also is the weirdos, the characters, just the variety of personalities that if you just walk
around, you get to meet them. And I think New York still has that, but it has the extra cynicism
on top of it. That's a negative. I mean, just becoming friends with Joe, he inspired me to be
nicer to people, to not take myself seriously, to be humble, to celebrate friends, not to be
competitive. All those things, since I started listening to his podcast from the very beginning,
it just radiated from the guy. The thing that people don't appreciate is Joe Rogan
likes it when you bust his chops. Yeah. I mean, a lot of people at that level,
like if it's, oh, Mr. Rogan, you're laughing at everything they say, they don't want that. It's
very phony and they feel uncomfortable because they know that everything they say is hilarious.
I remember I went with him, he was doing a performance here and I was, yeah, you were there
and he was doing his set. And I'd reached the point now where I don't think of him as Joe Rogan,
you know, just like my buddy's doing standup, you forget. And then I looked at the audience
and I remember him like, oh, this is like a religious experience for these people,
but you forget who he is because he doesn't carry himself like a big shot.
Yeah. And still, I mean, he gets competitive as fuck. Like I argue with him a lot. I mean,
when I talked to Francis Collins and Pfizer CEO, you better believe I heard from Joe.
And then we would just get super drunk and argue about it. So it's, I mean,
it's beautiful and he gets really passionate. So it's not like, it's not like easy to argue with
him, but that's great when you don't take it personally. It's fun.
As you and I discussed, and I'm sure he wouldn't mind us saying this, but like
that moment when you first get a text from Joe Rogan and it's a boomer meme,
like I finally felt like I've arrived as a person.
A boomer meme? What kind of boomer meme are we talking about?
Like he's just some silly meme, but it's just like, this is the kind of thing you can imagine
someone's uncle posting on Facebook. It's Joe Rogan texting it to you.
Yeah. I mean, for me also with Elon, obviously, there's a few people, I'm just saying folks that
people know. Also Jim Keller, who's worked with Elon. So I've had conversations with them
because it's just my line of work. They're realizing that everything is possible in this world.
Yeah. Yeah. Which is not the Russian mindset. Yeah.
Well, okay. All right. That's, let's style it down a notch.
Yeah. It's what, when Elon calls first principles thinking, but really it's just
not being limited by the constraints of the past. Yes.
And so saying like, okay, this is how things have been done, but can be done much, much better.
And that has to do with manufacture. Like how do we do this 10 times cheaper?
Like everyone says it's super expensive, but does it really need to be, this is more of a question
about manufacture, about how to take, build a product, how to actually have a product that's
scaled it as an impact than just having a very serious engineering, like to the level of physics,
discussion about building a thing and fucking doing it and just being around people that did it.
And, you know, basically, literally or figuratively said, fuck you to everybody in the room that said
they can't do it. And that, that energy. So that I've gotten to know Elon a lot better in 2021.
That to me, it's like everything, the whole thing, that moving here and being surrounded
by the optimistic energy and then the individual interactions with people that refuse to be like
brought down by the, yeah, the cynicism of the world, the naysayers. It's,
that to me is what I'm going to remember this year for. And I hope it like materializes into
something concrete here in Austin and I feel is, is doing that.
I really am curious to be a fly on the wall. I'm sure it'll happen at some point,
watching you and Elon talk to each other. He's even more of a robot than you. He was on the
Babylon B podcast and I was honored to be able to be in the room while this was happening.
And with the guys at the B do at the end of every podcast, they have like, like 10 questions.
I don't think this is one of those. No, no, this one. And they go to Elon. Would you,
would you rather be Batman or Iron Man? You know, because they're both like multi million
industrialists and Elon being Elon is like, well, let's think this through. There's different
kinds of bats. You've got, you know, fruit bats and you got insect bats. Why is it called Batman?
Batman should fly, right? That's gonna fly. And I'm just sitting there with a holy dude,
just answer the question. It was so literal. I was like, damn.
I guess by this point, release of the podcast with him. That's a several hours. And it's exactly
as you would imagine. It's exactly as you would imagine. There was this super technical movie
her. Yes. So there's that one scene. It's when, what is it walking feet? Who's the lead character?
Yeah. A walking fetus. Yeah. So he's the lead and he falls in love with Siri,
basically, who's played by Scarlett Johansson. And there's another artificial AI that she's talking
to. And she's like, oh, can I permission to go into nonverbal communication with this professor
and the guys like, sure. And they just start talking to each other in their robot. And I'm
just imagining the two of you having this mind meld. Well, that, so there's both the humor of that,
but also the practical nature of the kind of conversations to have. It's so great because
it's a, it's problem solving mode. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. It's so fun. That is exciting.
Because like you stop completing sentences. I actually feel at home because you don't need
to say the full sentences anymore. You could just like say random words and you start to understand
what you're talking about. And then you can have multiple conversations at the same time and go
on these tangents. One of the biggest problems I have with podcasting for me talking, I have to
finish my sentences. I have to actually finish making a point, which is a big problem because
there's like a listener that needs to hear the point being finished as opposed to completing
your sentences inside your own mind. And like the thing I find is useful to Yon does the exact
same thing is when the line of thinking is no longer useful, you just ran, you just switched
to the next thing. You just leave that whole thing behind. You don't need a nice transition.
You don't need any of that. And also just, it's the first principles thing. It's like zooming in
on the elephant in the room. I love that. It's so energizing. That's what I love about engineers.
It's not the, it's not the maybe most eloquent communication style, but I love it. What about
you? So you said moving. The book. The book. What else? And you've been really excited about,
so that's Anarchist Handbook, but you've also been nonstop excited about white film. That was
most of this year. You've been actually made significant progress. Yeah. I'm on page 40 of
the second draft and it's really kind of funny because when you're doing your, I think 10th book,
I lost track already. The first draft is actually pretty good. Like I'm going back and like,
all right, this is going to be a whole slog. I'm like, oh, I just have to cut and paste this and
basically tweak a few words. So I did a good job with the first draft. It's also funny when you're
writing how, and I guess this is the mark of a good professional writer. My personal feelings
don't match how the characters in the book come off. Like I have a lot of fondness for people
like Emma Goldman and Alexander Berkman and they're early on in the book, but they're not good
people. And I'm writing it objectively and whatever. And I'm reading this, I'm like,
they come off much worse than my personal appraisal of them. So it's kind of interesting as a writer
when you're watching it. I guess kind of like an attorney, right? Like you can have a situation
where you, as an attorney, you have a lot of fondness for your client, but you realize that
they probably did this thing or it could be other way. Like they're innocent, but it's hard for you
to make a good case for them because the data is not there. Can you actually talk about your
writing process in several ways? Sure. One, your writing process, but two, by way of advice of
how to write, you've talked about in the past, like your first draft is these kind of disparate
or more chaotic and that you don't, in the same way that maybe I was saying in the engineering
discussion, you don't complete the sentences. It's just like thoughts. Yes. So the first
like real good writing advice I remember getting was this book by Peggy Noonan called
What I Saw at the Revolution. And she was Ron Reagan's speech writer. She still writes for
The Wall Street Journal. The book I bought was at a used bookstore in Lewisburg, Pennsylvania,
when I was in college. The spine is cocked. I still have it. It was 99 cents. And she talked,
you know, when you're writing for a president, this is no joke, especially for a president who
says no, the great communicator, Reagan, you know, so, and you have to be very inspirational,
but also not come off as corny, which is very hard to do. And she in the book talks about
how she wrote speeches for him, how she, you know, I'm paraphrasing her and I haven't read
her book in a couple of decades, but basically she would write like a brain dump and it's just
garbage. And she was like, that's okay, just get it all out there. And then, you know,
there's that expression all writing is editing. So for the white pill specifically, this is,
I don't know if it's the most ambitious book I've ever done. Your reader, I think is more
ambitious because that's all of North Korea's history. And it's written somebody else's voice,
not person's emotion. And you, like you mentioned, you had to read a giant number.
Yes, 60 bucks as research. Yeah. Well, maybe can we just pause? Can you say what white pill is about?
Sure, it's a tale. It's about hope. And it's a tale of good and evil. And I think that's,
I don't want to tip my hand too much. But people always like, how do you think, why are you so
hopeful? And I'm not hopeful on an emotional level. I'm hopeful because looking at history,
I think there's certain things that not will certainly happen again. But it's not at all
implausible to happen again. And that the good guys will win. And this is one of those cases.
So, you know, I had the book took on a life of its own. It's very different from how originally
conceived it. I originally conceived it as a kind of retelling of Camus philosophy.
Ryan Holliday, who he used to be close friends with, I've talked to him a while,
he has a whole kind of cottage industry based on the Stoics of the past. I'm like, okay,
can I ask him once? Can I do this with Camus? He said, sure. And then I reread Camus recently,
and it wasn't what I had remembered. I was like, can we pause on that? I apologize to interrupt.
So, it's interesting. So, he kind of took ideas from Stoics and started to kind of
use it as a book that gives you advice about how to live life from the Stoic perspectives.
And you were thinking, is there something in existentialism, absurdism, or something specifically
in Camus thinking, or I think you've mentioned the myth of Sisyphus specifically, like his
philosophical work. So, you were trying to see like, is there, can I resurrect this? That's actually,
I would think that's an interesting project. And it's sad to hear that
it was, it didn't materialize in exactly that form, because I thought there would be a lot
in that. So, I had Douglas Murray on my show, and he also made the point, like, when you go back
and read Camus, there's not that much there. The myth of Sisyphus is not at all how I remembered
it. The vast bulk of that book is like literary criticism. So, he's talking about Dusty F's,
you know, those different people who are in bottoms of the absurd, but I'm like, this isn't,
there's not much to take from here. The actual title essay is basically like a
sixth chapter essay at the back of the book, which, you know, it's good for what it is, but
there's not that much there to draw. I'm extremely, he's a great hero of mine. I think his life is
just enormously admirable. He fought very hard against the Nazi occupation. His book, The Plague,
which I find unreadable, is an allegory about, you know, Germany conquering France and so on and so
forth. Wait a minute. Why is The Plague unreadable? It's the kind of book where reading the book
doesn't add anything to the plot. The plot is a plague comes, sleeps over the town, destroys a lot
of life, and vanishes as quickly as it came. You don't need to read the book now. Like, you get the
point. I deeply disagree with you. Yes, of course I've read The Plague. To me, I mean, The Plague is
about the doctor, and it's about love, and it's about the different roles that humans take in time
and tragedy, like The Plague. Also, it's an allegory, so you can start to think about, like,
what, you know, you could, whether it's Nazi Germany, whatever you think that is. Yeah.
To me, though, that was about love and about, like, the role, like, the highest ideal being the doctor,
like, sacrifices themselves for others, and, like, still has love and hope. I mean, to me,
the way that story is told, I think, has a lot of meaning. It's like, to me, you're saying that's
interesting. You say it this way. To me, it's like saying Animal Farm doesn't need to be read,
because it's an obvious story. I don't think there's much plot to The Plague. I think Animal
Farm has a very long plot and a complex plot. But there's experiences within. So the situation set
up in The Plague, and there's experiences that start to reveal a philosophy. So, yeah, it's not
very plot driven. Yeah. But, so I would say you still should read it, but the plot doesn't,
like, you didn't give away anything currently. Right. That's, so some books are just, I mean,
Ayn Rand is similar to that, in a sense. Like, the plot is not as important as the behavior of
the different people in that plot. I think she's very plot heavy. No, she has plots, but I'm saying
that's not necessarily the important thing. To me, the behavior of the people is the important thing.
Sure, but you could, you could, you could, like, separate it into a bunch of blog posts,
and they stand on their own. I would have to think about that with Ayn Rand. She, she does
through the plot create a world where you start to understand the different values that people have.
But, yeah. But that's what the plot serves. Yeah, I would have to think. But in The Plague,
it's the behavior of the people that's really important. And the same, I mean, the stranger,
too. I mean, these like, I'm sure I'm trying to scramble here for books. I really appreciate
that. Don't have a plot. I mean, no, no, it's from underground. So obviously, this task
is a huge amount of plot in most of his work. Herman Hess has a huge amount of plot. Thomas
Mann doesn't have the plot. He's the one who doesn't have plots. Thomas Mann, would you say
Kafka has a plot? I think Kafka is very heavy plot driven. Yeah. But I just don't see that, I guess.
I guess Metamorphosis doesn't really have a plot. Yeah, but there's like crawling around.
But it's like a vignette. It's not really like this. Yeah. A hunger artist on my probably favorite
short stories. That kind of short story is a pretty long short story of Kafka's is really
interesting. It's about a man. I don't know if you read it. No, I think so. It's about a man that
is like a freak in the sense that his skill is that he can fast for a long time. Okay. And then
people gather on the cage and look at him as he, as he fasts. I don't actually remember if
he's in the cage or not, but the, and eventually he fasts so long that people don't even care anymore.
Like they just leave. So there's a, there's a, it has to do something. It makes me think about like
don't become the way you live. Don't become like a freak show, a circus act. Like live for
an ideal, live, live for something that brings you joy. Or don't live for the sake of attention.
For the sake of attention. That's a good point. Yeah. Yeah. Anyway, so I rudely interrupt you
because you were talking about the plague and connecting it to the writing process of white pill.
Yeah. Well, anyway, so, you know, how I was writing this one, I just had a first draft of
notes and they're all, it's not in chronological order. It's like, I read certain books as research
and then I had the pull quotes that was necessary there. And now I'm basically rearranging everything
and putting it. So the book started as Ryan Holliday's, right. Equal Ryan Holliday as Camus.
The working title would have been The Point of Tears because this is quick. Camus is a great
quote maker and he has this line about man must live, live to the point of tears,
which I think is just what I love about him is Camus, he comes off as like he's clenching his
teeth. He's clenching his teeth both in terms of like barely mitigated rage and injustice.
Like when he sees people suffering, it just really makes him like just upset to the core.
But also this sense of not taking life for granted and kind of just pushing yourself
and pushing the boundaries and his point being that life is inherently meaningless,
which gives a great opportunity to impute meaning to it, to create our own meaning to life.
So taking the main essay from Mythocisophus, that was the origin story for the white pill,
but then it became something completely different. And so then it became, how are you so optimistic
in the face of everything that's going on in the world? And I started writing it when COVID started
hitting. And because again, I'm not optimistic because of some temperament of mine. I'm optimistic
because people talk about how if the US didn't exist, China would just become an empire and take
over everything. Empires are expensive. And they look at the British Empire, look at the
Soviet Union. It's not automatically sustainable. It costs a lot of things to make sure when you're
geographically all over the world literally to keep everyone in line. It's not at all like a
supervillain in a movie. Once it happens, it's the happy ending for them. So yeah, that was the
start. And I'm like, all right, let me tell one thing I'm good at is telling stories. So this is
really a... So this is plot driven. Very, very plot driven and also heavily character driven,
but the characters are real. Yeah, got it. So it's interesting to kind of mention what kind of,
what does the first draft kind of look like in terms of what kind of things do you plop down?
Oh, so it'll be like, let's suppose I just read some book called The Guillotine at Work, which was
an early book attacking Lenin from the anarcho communist perspective. So it'll just be like
all the different quotes, like a paragraph here, double space, another paragraph, blah, blah,
so on and so forth. Whereas for other sections where I wasn't just using a book as research,
there would be like talking about McKinley getting shot. Like it's just me writing the narrative
and that I could just pretty much copy paste into the second draft. By way of advice, would
you give that as advice? Is that a good way to do it? Is that a very peculiar way your brain
works? No, so this is actually advice I feel comfortable giving to people who are trying to
write because it's just like with the gym, right? If you did seven sets, seven, excuse me, reps last
week and you did eight this week, it's psychologically motivating because you're going in the right
direction and do you mind extrapolates? So make sure, tell yourself, I'm going to get a page done
today or two pages done. So you're asked to run the computer and I'll have to get up to get those
two pages. It doesn't matter if they look at garbage because if you have a 300 page first draft
and it's crap, at least you have something to work with and that's a big number. So if you're
going to, the thing is, since the first draft is going to be crap, if you're editing as you write,
it's going to be extremely discouraging and it's also trying to drive and then doing reverse at the
same time. It's a completely nonsensical way to do it. Get it all out there. Don't look it over.
If you have a great line put on your phone and then add it to the draft, so it'll be a complete
slog, but editing that slog is going to be a lot easier than creating it to begin with.
And when you see those disparate lines all laid out on the page, how difficult does it to
then start stitching it together? Do you find that when you look at a list of those things,
the final product will look very different? Yes. Or will you actually use those lines?
No, I will use those lines. Then I have a file called scraps. So if the line's no longer used,
I put it in my scrap pile. I'd love to see what's in the scrap pile.
Okay, yeah, sure. One of the things I've been pulling scraps is a lot of times when I was earlier
writing, I would have contemporary references. And I realized that that's bad because I want
the reader to be in the past as the present. So if you're talking about, let's say 1901 and
then you're referring to Obama, that screws people up. So I had to pull all those.
Okay, let's talk about some New Year's resolutions. Do you ever do New Year's resolutions? Do you
ever think like that? Like take a special day in the year to think about how you're going to try
to change yourself? Or do you try to transform yourself every single day when you wake up?
Well, I usually have several projects I'm working on at once. So there's always incremental
progress in those. You know, it's nice to have a deadline. By the end of 2022,
I'll accomplish this, kind of like to hold yourself responsible. And then you could do that at the
beginning of the year to think about that. Both philosophically, like what kind of big,
not projects that you can quantify, but more like, how can I change my life? Or like I mentioned,
take the leap of different kinds. And then there's specific things like finish the book.
I, years ago, and I'm, I think on some level, you much less than me, but I think you're increasing
in this direction. I realized it's more, I have to learn how to be a surfer and not a driver.
Because when you reach the level we're at in our careers or in our place in the culture,
a lot of this is luck. And a lot of this is just like,
like I'm just going along for the ride because it's kind of counterintuitive. Like, you know,
like the success of the anarchist handbook was counterintuitive. So all I'm hoping for is,
you know, getting the book done. I am extremely proud of it. And just also, you know, building a,
you know, we had Thanksgiving together at Blair's house, just building a great
upcoming community here in Austin, which has happened very quickly. I was, there was going to
be another surprise here. There's a girl named Natalie Sidesurf, and she makes these ultra
realistic cakes. Like if you've seen those cakes online where it looks like you're cutting a puppy,
like she makes those kind of things. So she's here.
In Austin?
Yeah, you know, so.
Like moved permanently?
I think she's been here for a while. I've never, I haven't met her yet, but I just kind of
chatted with her. So there's just, it's just so many, there's so many scenes happening here
that are overlapping.
So in general, finish the book, keep building a community. I mean, you've already been doing
that here. You've been here several months.
I've been making a point to introduce people to each other and everyone's just really getting
along very well.
That's great. And the book is the focus.
The book is the focus.
What about the podcast that you're doing? You're welcome.
Yes. I mean, I enjoy it and it's been growing a lot. I finally got a new computer,
which my friend Jay installed so I can have a decent camera because of my old,
this is my mindset as a hoarder. Like I was more interested in spending money on a Pareto
autograph than actually getting a computer that's from the 20th century.
So, but I'm such an old school person in that in my head podcasts are like so ephemeral.
Like there's some episodes of my podcast I'm really proud of and there's a lot of friendships
I've made as a result of it that really mean a lot to me. No question. It's made my life
a profoundly better place, but it's not the same as that book on the shelf, especially when the
book is something that I think matters much more than I do.
Yeah. There's a permanence to it. There's a seriousness to laying down the words on paper,
like really giving them thought.
Yeah. That's true, but I'm a huge fan of podcasts. You don't listen to podcasts
much. It's just fascinating to... Yeah, like at all. I don't know how mine is so successful.
Yeah. I just love the medium. I love the authenticity, the realness of the medium.
That's really nice. I just understood for the... It's starting to click because
my pal Blair White, she was just on Rogan and the first 10 minutes, I was so angry.
I was sitting there yelling at the screen because Joe and Blair, you would think that
they're going to start talking about Trump or trans issues or move into Austin.
They start talking about shark reproduction and neither of these dumbasses knew anything
about it and I know a lot about it and they're like, oh, is it like this? I'll do the sharks,
lay eggs and I'm sitting there. I'm like, if you don't know why you're talking about this,
why? Why are you talking? I could also see why people like these shows,
because they feel like they're friends of the people, like they're sitting in the room,
because I felt like it was in that room and I wanted to shake both of them.
Yeah, in the room. To know what about transforming yourself and new resolutions like that.
Oh, I'm doing a slight bulk now. I'm almost at my heaviest weight ever, but I couldn't
go to the gym this week because I'm a little underweather. That's been a little frustrating,
but yeah. So we're going to get some more modeling pics. What are we, what's, what's,
is there goals there? So my heaviest, I'm four eight. The heaviest I've ever been was when,
and this is when I was like, he's exaggerating. He's not at that. That's the metric.
Oh, sorry. Are you talking about your height? Yeah. Yeah. Barely four, six. So the heaviest
I've ever been when I was like really high body fat, because I was just, because I learned,
because I couldn't gain weight as a kid. So when I figured out I could actually gain weight, I like,
I was 164.5. So I want to hit 165 and then see, take it from there. I have a friend who's been
helping me, my buddy Trey Goff and this kid stronger, his Jake, his username on Instagram
is stronger, both the number five instead of the letter S. But he does, I've never, it looks like
it's Photoshop, like your brain can't process it. You know the human flag? No. Oh yeah. Yeah. Sorry.
He does human flag push ups. Wow. So he is horizontal parallel to the ground, right? He's
holding himself up like a flag, but he could also do this while, so he's moving parallel to the earth
side to side while how it's just crazy. That's really difficult. So you're interested in that
kind of stuff. No, but I'm saying like he's been helping me out. So like the guy knows what he's
doing. He's just a really impressive kid. I love that kind of stuff, like body weight stuff. So
my primary mode of working out, it's very like the, you ever seen Leon, like the professional
that with Natalie Portman, that movie, I have a pull up thing as you push up some pull ups. It's
very like, I'm just missing the milk. I like working out at home just like that. And the body
weight stuff, you can go so much with it and it's super functional for everything else you live in,
for life, for living life well. I'm on the other hand, I don't care with functionality.
The thing that really bothers me, like I go, I know Joe's thinking of opening up a gym,
like a private gym. There's only like one power cage here at the golds I go to. I don't know
what source that there's only one or that sometimes people aren't using it. I'm like,
no one's doing deadlifts in here. No one, just me. It's golds. By the way, I don't want to say
where I'll tell you off Mike, but there's a few really ghetto places around Austin that are just
like these shitty gyms that nobody wants to go to, but they have a rack, they have like, if you
want to lift heavy, that kind of stuff. But are they 24 hours? That's the thing, golds. Oh, but
they're 24 hours in the following way. There's a code. Okay. And you just go in. Okay. And you
turn on the lights and then you work out. I don't want to meet people. Exactly. Well, that's just
not true. Sometimes there's people and they're great. Yeah. Like, and I've had fans give us
me a goals and they've all been cool, except, except, except, except if I have my headphones on
and I'm doing deadlifts, I don't need you to come over, tap my ear and start giving me critiques
about my form. It's actually happened. Yes. I'm still angry about it. I'm pulling my 150 in peace.
Thank you. Yeah. People are hilarious. I was recently in, actually, the wildest day ever in
my life. So many things happened in a row. So when to a wedding in LA. Andrew? Andrew Schultz.
And with Whitney Cummings and Joe Rogan and a bunch of other fascinating people. It's just
speaking of weirdos. There's the comedian, like the reason I find the comedians awesome.
One, they're authentic. They're just cool people. Yeah. Yeah. But they're also just weird. Like,
you don't become a comedian for not being like fucked up in all kinds of different ways. Anyway,
so there's the wedding. I'm, you know, me, it was only carbs at the wedding. So I didn't eat. I didn't
eat for a long time. So I was like already fasted 20 hours, 25 hours. And so that this whole story
of everything that happens is, is Lex like 40 hours fasted with Joe Rogan drinking a lot of whiskey.
And so you were drinking too heavy on 40. Oh my God, that's crazy. So it is calories.
That was my only source of calories, the whiskey. And I, so I didn't trust myself with carbs when
I'm drunk. I just don't enjoy it because I'll forget. And I just enjoy eating like a strict
healthy diet when I'm drunk because I'd rather eat more food that's healthy versus not. And so
anyway, so then we went to Vegas together and then just kept doing wild thing after another
wild thing. Rogan opened up for Wendy Cummings. He just like showed up at a random party that he
wasn't invited. And he did a thing. He almost started a fight because some guys said stop,
spread yell that him said stop spreading misinformation. And then we run into David
Goggins of all, this is my first time meeting David. I've talked to David a lot over the phone.
And we were supposed to do a thing together. And this is me trash out of my mind meeting David
for the first time with this incredible wife, Rogan's wife was there. By the way, Joe Rogan's
wife, David's wife made me realize that I really want to be married because they're not, they make
their partners better. Yeah. Like that I was,
there's a certain aspect of marriage that I'm afraid of that like your partner takes you away
from life. You don't get to experience life as much. But this was like, they were enriching them.
I don't know. It's like the world's most powerful support group. It was cool. Anyway,
so then of course drunk Lex is challenges Goggins to pushups. I saw that's on Instagram.
So we're in the middle of your suit in this suit in the middle of casino. There's a crowd
gathering. Like it's Joe Rogan, me and David Goggins, and I'm just doing pushups with them.
And Rogan is like commentating and yelling and screaming. It was surreal. And just going
on to the next thing and next thing and next thing like this. And then drove all the way from Vegas
back to LA with Joe and Whitney and his wife. And it was like, what is this? And all of it is
done in 24 hours. The one valuable lesson is don't fast and drink like excessively. So I've
learned that because what happens is liquor hits your mind. My mind. Sorry. I'll speak about my
particular mind. Like the intellectual part of my brain got hit really hard, really fast. So I was
not able to even more so than usual stitch together sentences. I understood everybody well.
So like made your name again. Yeah, I was. Yeah. So like meeting David, I want to say
so many things. He's so inspiring to me, right? But all I said was like, hello.
And I remember like opening my mouth to like try to say more. And I was like,
and then I would just close my mouth and not be able to say anymore.
This is why this is one of the reasons I don't drink ever. Yeah. It removes certain barriers.
Like it allows you to maybe have fun that you wouldn't otherwise. But yeah, definitely for
personal values and intellectual eloquence. And I also hate being hungover. The hungover part.
Yeah. That's the worst. And you also like I did this to myself. Yeah. But it also teaches me that
this too shall pass because I've been hungover and I've quit drinking so many times in my life
that it realizes, it makes you realize that all the unpleasant feelings,
all you have to do is just wait it out and be fine. It took me a long time to realize that
that expression means the other thing. What's the other thing? If things are going great,
this too shall pass. Yeah. I always thought about it. No, I always thought about it as being more
like don't worry if things are bad, it'll pass. It's like it's also like if something's going
great, it's not going to be this way forever. It's like Bukowski said love is a fog that
fades with the first daylight of reality. Do you think love can last? Oh yeah, we're going to win.
Who's we? The good guys. Didn't Hitler also think he's the good guys? He's wrong.
Because you know why? Why? He didn't win.
So you think it's permanent? So this one time the good guys winning, it'll last. It won't pass
because I think all of it passes unfortunately. I think we're going to win and win big in the
not so distant future. Do you have specific things in mind or no? Or just a sense about
human civilization, about society waking up? I don't know about waking up, but I think the
increased understanding on all sides of the political spectrum that corporate America
and corporate news outlets are self motivated actors and those motivations are often inimical
to what others would regard as desirable is something that I think is happening with
increasing frequency. So what do you think about the political landscape in general?
You had a great conversation with Glenn Beck and he said that he talked to Trump and
believes that Donald Trump is definitely running in 2024 or very likely running in 2024.
I think he said he thinks he'll have a good chance of winning or I don't remember that, but
the fact that he was running was a surprise to you. Do you think Donald Trump would be running in 2024?
Given that Glenn Beck has a much better relationship with Trump than I do to put it
mildly, if Glenn Beck is certain this is going to happen, I would defer to Glenn Beck's judgment.
Do you think he has a chance of winning? Do you think he'll win?
Anyone in a binary political system who's the nominee has a chance. Like whoever the Republican
Democrat has a chance. I think also it's a lot easier to vote for someone that you have voted
for in the past. So that's why incumbents have a big advantage. There's not that psychological
barrier to cover. I think it's also useful for Trump that he's banished for social media because
then he doesn't have to have the responsibility of governing and all the costs of that because no
matter what decisions you make while governing, some people aren't going to like that. So he gets to
kind of be above the radar or below the radar rather to some extent. I don't think it's at all a
given that he would get the nomination. When I say the good guys are going to win, I certainly
don't mean Donald Trump. I don't think victory is going to come as a consequence of Washington.
Do you want to make America great again? I think America is great.
Does my fail the tempted humor? One of many. There are also hats that Julianne and Jim
Jeffords wore that said people can look this up. They said because they were in South the border,
make Mexico great again also. That's in me. It was like just the syntax there.
Okay. So you don't even think you might get the nomination? Who else might?
If you had asked three years out who the nominee in 2020 would be, Donald Trump wasn't even or
2016 rather, wasn't even on the radar screen. So we have a long way to go.
Even two years is a long way to go? Yeah. Especially because we're coming out of COVID.
There might be some governor who becomes a rock star for some reason. Maybe someone's
going to have some congressmen might have some big moment where they're screaming at somebody and
all of a sudden they become a rock star in the Republican Party.
It could be one of the celebrities we don't think about. Donald Trump is essentially not a political
figure before he ran. So it could be any of the famous right leaning celebrities. I don't even
know which way McConaughey leans. No, I think he's the lefty or he was going to run as a Democrat,
but he's not running. But people like that just might step into the ring.
Yeah. I don't think they'd have that much of a chance because I think the Republican Party,
there's an asymmetry. They'd be much more skeptical of like an actor than Democrats would be because
they would regard that actor as coming as a kind of mentoring candidate or whatever.
Right. But there's other kinds of celebrities like Jaco could run as a Republican.
That's a good example. Yeah. Yeah.
That would be interesting. So military person. Right. Yeah.
But already like for example, Dr. Oz is thinking of running for,
is going to run for the Senate in Pennsylvania. And there's already been a lot of research
people slamming him on Twitter and social media for past positions he's taken. So
you know, the Santas is the figure of the moment, but Scott Walker was the figure of the moment in
the 2016 cycle and he didn't even make it to Iowa. Yeah. And I wonder what role does COVID play in
all of this in terms of, you know, I'm mostly optimistic and hopeful about the world. Like
when I look at the world, I'm excited by most things. I've been a little bit or a lot disappointed
by the lack of great leadership in a time of trouble. Because to me, one of the great things
about a difficult time is it brings out the great leaders. Again, it's the up and down
things. Like you don't want to ask for war. You don't want to ask for pandemics. But when they
happen, it's a great opportunity for the human spirit to flourish. And the fact that it didn't
quite in the way that I hoped it would is disappointing. I think there's still time too,
because people are trying to figure out what to do as we emerge from the fog. Yeah. So I'm excited
by 2020. For somebody said this dark cynical thing, I hope this is not true, but like that
there was some doubt about the results of the election in 2020, that in 2024, both sides,
it'll just start becoming standard to completely reject the results of an election no matter
who wins. Well, that's my perspective. I don't regard elections as legitimate. And I see what
you're saying, not in the terms of that basically the process itself was illegitimate. Yes. There's
like cheating or something. Yeah. But I think that that's pretty much a given. It has been a
given. Like it's either Republicans often say, oh, they got all these illegals to vote. Or the
Democrats will say the voting machines were hacked or the media, so on and so forth. Because despite
all the people flapping their guns about democracy, they only like democracy when it gives them the
results that they want. Can I ask you about something else that Glenn Beck said that I
thought was really interesting. I agree with him very much on this. And I was refreshing to hear,
although he kind of made a turn it into a point about why Trump is great or whatever. But the
point was the following, which is he doesn't want to talk to anybody who can't say at least one nice
thing about everyone. So like, if you don't like Donald Trump, if you don't like Joe Biden,
you should still be able to say one nice thing like legitimate nice, not just like a dismissive
nice thing, but legitimately say what is one nice thing they did or like, or who they are as a person.
And not not like saying Donald Trump. It's funny sometimes like no like legitimate where you really
mean it. And it's been really troubling to me how few people are able to do that about political
figures. I had a lot of people. I think I tweeted something like this leading up to the election,
saying like you should be able to say something nice about both Joe Biden and Donald Trump.
And I've had old friends. I don't want to say specific, I guess, to call them out, but they
several people and one in particular like wrote me this long, like several page email.
It was Sam. It was Sam Harris. Was it Sam Harris? Sam Harris. No. But
I have a lot of conversations with Sam Harris now and Joe on both sides. It's like the devil and
the angel on both sides. I don't know which one is which, but they're both devils.
And they said, how could you say, how could you even consider like that there's something positive
about Donald Trump? Yeah, he's an easy one. He has three wives with three kids with each,
but the kids get along. I think that's really commendable that Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump
and Barron can all get along with each other given the circumstances. I think that speaks to
something as someone as a father, Ivanka. So on the family level. And I see the same thing with
actually one of the reasons I always found Joe Biden fascinating is he's had a lot of really
traumatic things happen in his life. Yeah. And if I shit my pants in front of the pope, I'd be
traumatized too. I'm talking to a master troll about something sensitive and beautiful that
is a man suffering with a loss. I kind of know what he feels like right now. I'm pretending
you're the pope. This chair is ruined. Sorry, Elon. You'd have to sit in it.
Why does this chair feel like I'm sitting in a swamp?
I can't look. You have stuff to show. Can you forego chair?
I'll send you a protestant. That's a pretty good Elon impression.
But yeah, I mean, like one criticism I told Joe,
Rogan is like, he has trouble finding one positive thing to say about Joe Biden, for example.
And I just don't, I don't like that. I want, I think, I mean, I'm a big believer in the shit
sandwich sticking on topic. Here's an easy one. I think Joe Biden clearly is a very amiable person.
What's amiable? It gets along with people. It seems really clear that maybe before president,
because it's different when you're the president, but that he could call a lot of these Republican
senators, get them on the phone and have a conversation with them. Yeah. And it's not
some kind of manipulation. To some extent it is because they're all politicians, but he clearly
seemed to be able to get, wasn't like an ideologue. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, but there's,
I mean, maybe I'm a sucker for that kind of thing, but the blue collar thing, like riding the train,
you know, there's ways to connect with people and not, it's seeing them as equals,
no matter where their walks of life are. And I love it when presidents do that.
To some degree, because of the wealth under which Donald Trump existed for a lot of his
recent life, he's less able to do that quite naturally. Maybe sometimes Obama wasn't quite
able to do that. Who's more blue collar Trump or Biden? And you can easily make the case for both,
I think. You could. No, not the blue collar, but like, like literally be able to fit in at a bar,
at a local bar and just like, I can see both of them. Yeah, you're right. I could see both of
them. Yeah. In fact, Obama doesn't quite. No, because he's got that Ivy League. Yeah, the Ivy
League thing. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, you're right. Somehow Donald Trump can too. No, he's not. Yeah,
you can see him having a beer with the guys and yelling at the screen. This is bullshit. Change
the channel. Yeah. I mean, I hope people do that. I think that's one of the most unpleasant things to
me is they're not able to empathize with the fact that half the country voted for another person.
Well, it's also then it's just a bad strategy. If you can't figure out why half the country is
voting for someone you guard as like a demon, well, then how are you going to supposed to fight
this demon? Like, you know, when I did your reader, the North Korea book, it's like, don't you want
to understand how these people get to where they got? It's unknown saying that he's a good person,
but like there's a logic to their, there's a method to their madness. You've talked about
national divorce a few times. I've seen a couple of videos recently where you're responding to
articles. It's kind of cool. Can you talk about this idea of national divorce and as it stands
today, arguing for it maybe. And if you could, just out of curious in the context of those videos,
if you can steal man and argument against. So I was the first one to kind of bring this
issue back into the national conversation. I wrote a piece for Observer in 2016,
then Jesse Kelly had a piece a few months after that. David Boy just recently did a piece on his
stop stack earlier this year. And it's become enough of a mainstreamed idea that paleontology
outlets like the national review have felt the need to respond to them. So the point being that America
has had at least two cultures since the beginning, and that there's absolutely no reason, and these
cultures in recent years, and this was in 2016, not mentioned 2021, have been increasingly antagonistic
toward one another and have even lost the ability to communicate. They're using language in different
ways. And that there's no reason for this to continue any further. And you live your life,
we'll live ours, and good bye and good luck. There's no ill will. Now, there's lots of
arguments against them. Some of those are completely, I think, stupid. The stupidest one
is, well, that's what China wants. Okay, well, I mean, I'm not going to live my life saying,
I'm just going to do the opposite of whatever China wants. That's not logic. That's not a good
pathway. Now, I'm not saying they're right or wrong, but that's not a reason why we're another.
Yeah, you're bringing up China or Russia. That's exactly what China or Russia want.
But the strong way to phrase that is it weakens America, not just the one America, but
both sides in the divorce will be much weaker than they individually were together. So in
that sense, not that you have to care about what China thinks, but it's a big step backwards.
Yes, I think in the short term, it is absolutely a big step backwards in terms of power. There's no
question that when you're trying to reestablish a society, there's going to be a transition period,
that transition period is going to be costly. Each side starts wondering, wait a minute,
why are we still doing this? We don't have to anywhere. We're not living with them, so on and
so forth. So that's going to be a concern. I don't think that the whole point of America,
or even a large primary point of America, is to be a bulwark against Chinese power.
And there's going to be very few people on earth, given my work, who have as much informed hatred
and contempt for the Chinese government as I do. Certainly, next to the North Korean people,
maybe the people from Eritrea, there's few populations who I'm as worried about as the people
under the rule of the Red Chinese. My steelman argument is there's no way this is going to be
peaceful, because the lines don't separate out well. So all you're doing is basically just
replicating the problem, because the disparity isn't between during the Civil War North and South.
It's like it's between New York City and upstate New York, between Chicago, downstate Chicago.
Once you get outside of LA and Sacramento, California in many ways is like Kentucky.
So it doesn't make sense. So that's a strong argument. I mean, you've talked about that
this process will be painful. It can't be. And we're not just talking about violence. It could be just
even the Civil War, you could divide it somewhat cleanly. Obviously, the kind of national
divorce you might be suggesting is that people are living amongst each other. So you have to
literally move. It's complicated. Right. So that is a very strong argument. It's
I think a cogent argument against it. Two is it's not just China. It's that there's a lot of
bad actors in the world who maybe aren't like China certainly wants to carry itself and have an
appearance at least on the world stage as civilized and a leader. There's lots of smaller
countries who without us are going to feel comfortable doing some very nefarious things.
And they're not going to be scared of us anymore. And so that would be a bigger concern
in many regards than China. So I think that's a reasonable one. It could be that both sides,
if this happens, are going to instead of work toward better things that make you side bad would
get worse. And that's having those push towards the malevolent extremes is I think a very legitimate
criticism and a concern. I mean, as you suggested, there's no guarantee that won't happen.
Correct at all. Also, there's a I think a reasonable argument to make is like, are you
America just as a symbol and the myth of America? And I don't mean myth in a negative sense. Do
you really want to throw that in the garbage? Like this meant a lot for a lot of people and a lot
for history. You're just going to be like, okay, good, good work. We were done here. Let's shut
the lights. So that's I think a reasonable argument. So those are the biggest ones, I would say.
And still, what is the case for national divorce and along which lines? So like
in making the case for national divorce, if it is desired, based on which kind of ideas do you
think it should be carried through? Honestly, I don't know that it has to be idea based. Like,
for example, when Czechoslovakia broke up, when Norway and Sweden broke up, it wasn't really
ideological. It was more cultural. So I always say divorced into two, but it would probably
make more sense if it was like five. Because the Northeast, certainly New England has their own
culture. The West Coast has their own kind of culture. I don't know. The thing is,
into any kind of persuasion technique, right? Like once people are start, there's a difference
between convincing someone they want to buy a car and what features you want. So if you're at the
point where we're arguing about the features, then my work here is done. You know what I mean?
Like I don't have a dog in the fight in terms of what it's going to look like. I just want to get
to the point where you're at least considering seriously the idea of breaking up America.
And I would encourage people to go look at my article to see which I'm sure the arguments
still hold five years later. Do you have a kind of vision of which of the two or which of the five?
Like do you actually have specific cultures or ideas?
I'll tell you exactly. If I told you and everyone listening in 2014, we weren't that long ago,
it was not long ago, which of these two things is more likely to happen? 2014, Texas secedes
or declares a session for America or Donald Trump gets elected president. Everyone's voting for
Texas in terms of prediction, which is more likely. So we had this one. So it's not at all
unlikely we're going to have this one. I don't know if that logic carries through. You can't just
say here's an unlikely thing that happened. Therefore, anything can happen. You just earlier
said anything that happened this episode, didn't you? Life is suffering. I wasn't listening to
half the things you're saying. You said it. I said it. Yes, you said anything can happen.
I'm definitely not here. I'm like you with podcasts. I do a podcast, but I don't listen to it.
It's kind of fun talking. Okay. So yeah, yeah, yeah, it can happen. But in which,
I guess I'm asking, would you stay in Texas? 100%. So Texas and I'd run for office probably. It'd
be fun. I'm going to be the first president of Texas. I attended a debate between Yoram Books and
Yoram Hazoni. I don't know if you know who that is. The nationalist guy. Yeah. He wrote a book
called The Virtue of Nationalism. Yeah, I read that book. And they actually did a podcast with them.
They did a debate. Oh, they both run here? Okay. It was quite interesting. And I tried to wear my
Michael Malis hat. So the... You're wearing it now. You borrowed that from me. Yeah.
It's funny because the metaphor applies across all of these level of collectivism. So he was
arguing that for the power of nation, so he would be arguing against national divorce.
But he was also arguing for marriage, the power of actual marriage between individuals. I think
he's a conservative. And what I really like about him is there's a clear philosophy of
conservatism that he expresses. And I think a lot of people get behind that philosophy. Because
to me, like conservatism and liberalism often is very kind of used loosely. Yes. He has a
clear philosophy that he's expressing there and is grounded in tradition. He has a lot of value
in tradition. And so it's the thing you said about America. Like one of the arguments against
national divorce is like, listen, we've been at it for a while. Like there is a lot of value in
the fact that we've been at it for a while. Don't just throw it all away all the time. So he says,
like philosophically, he seems in a lot of walks of life, revolution should be avoided as much as
possible. I agree. And so it's kind of interesting. So he makes the case that there's something
fundamentally powerful about the nation that we... It's a nice way to group a culture.
And so national divorce, I guess, goes against that. Do you find some aspect of the virtue of
nationalism, as you will put it, powerful? Well, powerful in a good sense?
In a good sense. So sorry. Yeah, in a good sense. It brings out the best in humans.
I don't know what the best, but it certainly brings out good things. I have that line I always say
about, I love my country. I hate the government because I love my country. So there is a love
of country. I think it's... I don't know that that's the... I think it's also the case because the
country happens to be America. Like, I don't know if I was living in whatever, I don't want to insult
someone's country. Canada, yeah. If I was living in Canada, I don't know that it'd be the...
This is a guy who calls basically every other country shithole country.
Yeah, that's true. That's the fact. Yeah. So it's either you're either... There's two types of
countries, Texas or shitholes. Oh, wow. You went full Texas. So you're okay burning the northeast
of the ground at this point. Okay, I'm hoping for it. I'm hoping. What they've done to New York City,
I will never forgive these people. And I hope that they suffer enormously consequences for what
they've done to New York. It's unconscionable the assault that they've done and had no remorse over
how many creative outlets that they've destroyed. Yeah, it's the cultural hub, cultural center of
the world in many ways. New York was the... This was the place where you go to put up your shingle
and move the needle and make things happen. And I would understand if it was like, okay,
we got to suffer through this for a year, but we're going to make sure all these businesses
have a kind of safety net to make sure that they kind of get through and survive this,
which they did to the banks in 2008, for example. And I'm saying this as an anarchist and there
was none of that. So I burn it down and salt the earth because it's like watching a zombie.
It's unnatural. It's an abomination. So I mean, sort of on the white pill side of things, I don't
know about you. Maybe I have a sense that both Silicon Valley, that for me personally, maybe I
have the same intensity of feeling as you do about New York. It's just disappointing to see it
be consumed with cynicism and a lot of other paralyzing forces. But I still have hope for
that place. I think maybe it's the Yoram kind of tradition hope that through momentum,
the strong reemerges. So I have hope for New York. I think New York will continue, not maybe on a
scale of years, but a scale of decades, it would be ups and downs where it reemerges as a cultural
center. I just can't imagine a place like New York is like Paris. There's going to be long
stretches of time where it leads the world.
But Paris has not been a cultural hub for a very long time. The days of Matisse and Picasso
and Gertrude Stein are long gone. It still is a hub. Even London isn't London.
But what is then? London is still London. Paris is still Paris. It's just not the Paris of old.
It's not London of old. London is still a place. It's a tech hub. It's a fashion hub.
It's a music hub. I mean, it's still a pretty strong hub.
Yeah, but not like during the Beatles era.
Right.
It's not like or during the Sex Pistols era.
But it could be just us romanticizing the past because what is a hub then?
No, it's not romanticizing the past because a hub is the place where everyone on earth
or our eyes are on you. So in the late 60s, the British in the mid 60s, the British invasion,
you know, the kinks and all these other bands coming out of Great Britain,
like they were the innovators. This was the place that was happening.
Well, in that sense, like...
And Brooklyn, you know, 15 years ago.
But I guess maybe in that sense, in the 21st century, geographical hubs are becoming a thing
of the past. So like, you can be a hub in the digital space now. So like, it's not... Maybe
you'll never have...
I don't think... I think there will always be... I mean, what I'm saying, digital space makes it
easier for, let's suppose, Cleveland to be a hub, because all you need like 10 people who
happen to live in Cleveland or, you know, Akron was a hub, a minor hub.
All it takes is 10 to 50 people to create a, yeah, and maybe even less, maybe just two or three
or four people. But I mean, there's been no shortage of articles talking about Austin
and what's happening here. And I know some of Joe's plans and you and I and Blair and all
these other people that we know, buddy, Andrew Heaton moved here. He's just one of the best
people I know. It's just, I'm really, really excited.
Can I ask you some weird thing about friendship?
Of course.
Because you mentioned, Sam, he's Mr. Harris to you.
Didn't that bother you how he went after Joe?
Well, he's like, oh, in case you guys have brain damage from watching Rogan's last episode,
like, watch, here's the answer. And it's just...
Oh, like, digs like that?
Yeah, yeah, I didn't like that.
I didn't like that either. I think Sam doesn't like it either about himself.
Okay.
He regrets those things.
Because it's very easy to say from his perspective, look, this isn't the full side,
Rogan didn't show you the full side of the story. Here's the other side of the story.
Please watch this and be informed. That's a very reasonable thing to say.
Yeah, I don't quite understand this. So they do this about each other now.
I'll put three people on the table, which is Joe Rogan, Sam Harris, and Brett Weinstein.
And they have a way of talking like the other person is creating a lot of harm.
Like, publicly would say things like that. And I understand there's emotion in it.
But like, these are human beings that are friends of yours.
But I'll go the other way. Let's suppose it is true that Joe's doing a lot of harm spreading
misinformation. Being sarcastic isn't going to be persuasive. Whereas if you're like,
he's wrong, here's the facts, or here's, or be informed that to me, but then I'm not Sam Harris,
I'm not, he's got a bigger audience than me. So maybe he's the one who's right now wrong.
No, he's, well, he's just human.
Okay, well, I can relate.
Well, have you seen your Twitter lately? I mean, you get very, you have a lot of fun on Twitter.
I feel like Twitter, let's, I've never done that with someone I'm friends with. I never would.
Okay, let's put that on record. It is on record because if there's an issue with you,
I'm getting you on the phone. Yeah.
Good. I mean, then I'm not backing you into a corner publicly. It doesn't make any sense
strategically. Yeah. And actually, Brett Weinstein tweeted something sort of criticizing
something I didn't already forgot what, but he texted me first saying like, is it okay if I tweet
this? Yeah. And I said, yep, like, I was excited. Yeah. But I think there's some level of just
be compassionate privately and be compassionate publicly, like both civil. Civil. Yeah. I,
I, for some reason, I don't like the word civility because it, it's like polite. I do, like, it's,
it's a, would be cordial. Is that better? No, what I mean is like, it seems phony to you.
It seems phony. Like you should really love in whatever way. So even if you're rough with the
other person, you should still show like respect and love for that person. And that, that gets back
to the Russian rooms where they're yelling at each other, but they're still loving underneath it.
I mean, the question I want to ask for you is, I think you and I have a different view on some
things. Okay. We have a different approach to things, just on the surface level, but also a
different view on some things. Like I have a lot of hope for institutions. I, I have, so maybe it's
a gut instinct. Like your gut instinct is like centers of power are like, burn them down first
and then let's figure it out. Or maybe that's a funny rough way of saying it. And then for me,
it's like, no, let's understand the institution and slowly, um, revolutions from within versus
revolutions from without. And, um, but like we can have those disagreements and there may be times
when those disagreements will be, I could see in the future, I could see I'll be attacked
by my friend, Michael Malis, which I very look forward to it. No, not attack, but you know what
I mean on the surface level and the idea space. Anyway, because you're shaking your head now,
you won't, I guess, um, maybe this also goes to Sam Harris and Joe Rogan. I would love to be able
to disagree, disagree in big ways, unimportant things and still be close friends. And I don't
understand why those should be contradictions. Yeah. And that's the tension. That's been the
most heartbreaking thing to me about Sam and Brett and Joe. In the case of Brett, it's me,
I don't know, Brett. So I'm just like looking as a, somebody who just enjoys having these voices
out there and it seems like COVID just brought out the worst than some many folks. And it just
feels like it's so sad to me to see their friendship somewhat deteriorating, or maybe I'm just being
in a, um... No, it seems clear that it's deteriorated enormously. It's sad, but that's the case. Yeah.
So my, like I've had people come at me because I'm friends with you and they were like, Oh,
Lex authored some paper about masks. I don't even know what the hell they're referring to. I don't
care. I always say and mean, I don't care whether someone agrees with me. I care how they treat me.
And it goes the other way because I'll have a lot of people on Twitter who are like, Oh,
I'm on your team and blah, blah, blah. I'm like, I don't know you. You're not my team.
And just because you happen to agree with me, it's of no value to me. Like I don't know you and
I'm interested in knowing you. Many of my friends, I don't know their politics or I don't care. Like,
I care how we hang out. We have a good time. We watch the movies, watch YouTube, go to the
store, whatever. I don't know what your politics are. I don't care what your politics are.
Chris Williamson, who, you know, he's just here. He's going to be moving to Austin.
I only learned what his politics are in the last, we've been, we chat like almost every day
because he took the world's smallest political quiz and he figured out what his answers were.
I had no idea. He's communist. He's well, obviously. Yeah. Yeah. Marxist. Yeah. Let's be honest.
So like stuff like that, like it never, and people, I think because politics is often so
tribal, especially now, they'll be like, oh, I could never be friends with someone who voted
for X. Really? What if they're like grandma worked in that campaign? What if, you know,
you can't think of one steelman argument why this would happen, but if they just want to
spite their boss. So I don't like that approach at all. It makes no sense to me.
We could still have debates. I mean, like, I would still like to have those conversations
and still have disagreements. Like, I disagree with Joe on COVID a lot on a bunch of different
things, very kind of, but it's never like, it's not tense at all. It's just, it's, it doesn't
have that arrogance that seem a lot of COVID conversation seems to have, like talking down
to people from both directions. It's, so I would love to have those because I love the debate.
I love debates. It takes a lot to get me triggered. And when the Babylon B were interviewing Elon,
and he had this thing, he goes, well, I don't know anyone who wants to, you know,
abolish the FDA and the FAA, and I'm standing there and I'm shaking and the guys look at me,
and they're like, oh, we actually have an anarchist here. And the example he used was,
you know, look, if playing football, you're going to have a referee there. You want the referee,
you know, you don't want, but the referee started playing the game is, this is a good thing.
And I was sitting there, I'm like, the referee doesn't work for the state.
The referee is a private individual working for this organization. And there's no
reason at all that food quality, which is something crucially important,
has to be or can only be delivered through the state and a government monopoly.
That's actually really interesting. Just to link on that, just a little bit,
with the vaccine and stuff like that, with the antiviral drugs, the FDA, so like,
are you comfort, like who should be the referee? Right. Do you have an idea? Like,
what's the best referee for the vaccine? It's just the market. Just let people decide.
This is tricky because the thing that I have not been following COVID as closely as Joe and Sam,
as Mr. Harris, excuse me, and Mr. Musk, the point is, when anything like this is developing,
there's going to be a lot of misinformation out there, even from the scientists,
because it's a dynamic process. They don't know what they're dealing with. A lot of it has to be
speculative. They don't know long term effects because it hasn't been around for a long time.
So, I think it is very dangerous when Joe was mocked for taking a laundry list of
things under his doctor's advice, and they kind of latched on to the ivermectin,
and then they specifically said it was horse paced, although it's veterinary medicines,
why didn't they say dog paced or cat paced? It's like, well, he's not dead.
So, and he's also taking drugs which are used in other circumstances, the very least,
maybe they're pointless, but if the drug is being allowed for pharmaceutical reasons,
the odds are quite low that they're going to have deleterious side effects in general.
So, I think this kind of insistence that there has to be one officially approved outcome
that we're all doing, that is kind of dangerous thinking in general.
By the way, I don't know if you saw, I got a chance to talk to the Pfizer CEO,
and I had helped collecting questions because I got a lot of questions and
people put at the top a question from Michael Malis.
Oh, really?
No, the ask him what he likes best about me.
Oh, what does he like best? Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So, I actually had that in my list of questions I was going to ask him, and my plan was,
I'll ask him, Michael Malis wants to know what you like best about him.
And then my guess was he'd be like, who?
And I'll be like, exactly.
And then go on to the next.
But I thought like how it was such a tense conversation that I thought there would be no
question for levity.
The question I would ask him is, can you acknowledge that there is an enormous incentive
for your company to force everyone in America or everyone on earth to be a consumer of your product?
Yeah, that's my question.
So, I dance around that question quite a lot.
Like, I phrased it differently, which is a conflict of interest and attention between
making a lot of money and actually helping people.
And I mean, I've asked a lot of really heavy questions in that, and I still, and a lot of
people wrote to me with support saying like, that was a really great conversation.
And a lot of people wrote saying that, I mean, saying that it was just too soft.
And it, I don't know, I think about that a lot.
Like, how do you have that conversation?
I don't think it was too soft.
And actually just for the record, I want to say that they didn't see any of the questions I'm asking.
They didn't see the final interview.
I can ask anything I want.
And so, any questions that I asked and fail to ask is my own shortcomings.
Also, not being a coward, I was afraid of nothing.
Like, what do I have to gain or lose exactly?
Well, you have something to lose because if you're, I do only do softballs.
Because if I'm going to make it difficult for someone to come to my show,
a lot of people will be disincentivized to do the show because like, well, I don't need this.
I see.
Oh, yeah, I wasn't thinking like that.
But I was, I don't like to, what I think some fraction of folks wanted me to do is to
yell at a person, like, criticize them, not even ask questions.
Yeah, yeah, how dare you?
Yeah, but to me, my goal, my hope is with these conversations is not just to do
how great you are, all that kind of stuff, is to bring out some deeper truth.
Like, the beautiful things is when you can together realize some truth, like you mentioned,
that, you know, the incentive to, for everyone to take the vaccine is obviously high for the
maker of a vaccine.
Yeah.
Right.
And for them to arrive at that truth together, like, that is a really difficult truth to
operate under.
Like, for example, I had a whole exchange with him about, this is Jordan Peterson asked
this question, I use that as a kind of springboard, which is the kind of open doors between
the FDA, the CDC, and Pfizer, right, like some people work at Pfizer and then go to work
at the FDA and then vice versa.
And I brought up, this is my safe space, maybe yours too, just to give you a little
bit, maybe yours too, just going back to the Soviet Union to look at the lessons of human
nature and corruption and said, like, this, there's two things, this looks bad and two,
this naturally leads to corruption.
And I pushed this with several questions, but polite and respectful and he ultimately
said, you know, there's rules, we, there's the rule of law and there's very strict rules
about this, and we have to follow those rules, otherwise you get punished severely.
And so, like, his response is, like, people reacted to them as like, okay, that's the
CEO doing the political, but there's also truth to what he's saying, that one of the
beautiful things about America is that the, you can criticize the rule of law currently,
but it's still, it's better than in Soviet, in the Soviet Union, where people bribed
each other, and, but still, he made it seem like there's no corruption.
People often ask me why I describe myself as an anarchist and not a narco capitalist,
because they think my views are more in line with that school of anarchism.
And one of the other reasons you just gave me a good one is that if I am talking to someone
who's a major CEO, I am, I have that hardcore left anarchist view that this person is, if
not the devil, certainly going to be sinister, at the very least.
And if you can't say, listen, this happens inevitably with elites, it's, you know, it
happens in universities, it happens in the food industry, there's only so many people
at the top of these things, there's the field is small, and everyone's going to know each
other, which is kind of, you know, just the dynamics of any market, that would kind of
be more reasonable, and just say, it's easy to caricature us because you're not in the
boardroom, but we're not, you know, we are trying to produce a product that people want.
So unlike the people who criticize me, I was bothered by, I wasn't bothered by most things,
but I was bothered by the fact that he didn't show more worry about the corrupting nature
of money and power.
Like he should, if you say that there's no corruption, you should show that because we
constantly worry about it, not because like, look, there's rules, which are enforced by
you.
Yeah, exactly.
So like, I think the only way to avoid force for time, the corrupting force of power is
to freak out about it, nonstop.
The impression I always get from people like him, and I haven't seen the interview, and
I won't be watching it, is they're genuinely convinced that they're good guys, yeah.
And if you're the good guy, sure, corruption is a concern, theoretically, but I know this
guy at the FDA, I know this senator, sure we disagree, sure there's some things I don't
like, but in terms of corrupt, they're not getting briefcases full of money.
They're not going to sell a vaccine that, you know, kills people in Georgia.
So yeah, it's a concern, theoretically, but this is 21st century.
The thought process, I think, writes itself.
I think, yeah, having the humility, I do this all the time to maybe to a destructive level,
thinking that I might be doing bad for the world, I might be wrong, I might be that kind
of thinking is very, you should do at least some of that, not to a point being paralyzed,
but a little bit.
You're actually in the right mindset for me to ask you then for advice.
Okay.
You're in this compassionate, thoughtful mood.
I like it.
I like the compassionate, thoughtful Michael.
So for future conversations like that, so the person that offered a conversation that
at first I avoided, but I might return to is Anthony Fauci.
So there's Anthony Fauci, but then there's also Trump and Biden, people like that, like
if you add them on your show or just giving me advice on how to talk to them, what do
you think is the right way to talk to them?
And forget about future guests, but to get at something new together, get at something,
not for views or likes or clicks or any of that, but discover something new through the
mode of conversation.
Well, let's take those one at a time.
So if I had a talk in a Trump, I told Ruben to ask Trump this and he didn't.
What I wanted to know is, what's the look on your face when you're sending these tweets?
Because I imagine you're on the toilet with this phone.
Are you cracking yourself up?
Are you just completely stoic?
Are you kind of that Trump little smirky does?
So when you get someone to open up about their emotion, about some of their passion about,
I think that breaks down some barriers and creates a bond, yeah.
But Ruben wouldn't be, that's not his style, like that's a great question for you to ask.
Well, I told him to say Michael Malasette.
For Biden, that would be a tough one because Biden gets, doesn't get enough credit for
what a good politician he is.
There was this moment people can see on YouTube where Biden is addressing a room full of people
and he had someone there and he goes, why don't you stand up so everyone can give you
a hand?
And the guy was in a wheelchair and Biden's like, oh, and like, but instantly he goes,
you know what, we're all going to stand up for you.
And he made everyone get up and applaud the guy.
I'm like, that's quick.
Yeah.
Like, yeah, you made a fool of yourself.
So he is a glad hander.
In many ways, he's more of a schmoozer than Trump was.
Like Trump made the point that he knows all the good people, but Biden knows how to shake
hands.
Well, I think with both, I'm sorry to interrupt, with both Trump and Biden, like you mentioned
earlier, to me, at least their family is fascinating.
The dynamic, as a family man, as a father, as a, I think that Biden won't acknowledge
his illegitimate grandkid is a problem for me.
But at the same time, I can see why he thinks it's off limits to ask, because that's the
thing when you're dealing with people that powerful, they're not used to having to answer
questions, which might be perfectly nice, but would cause them to freak the hell out.
That's the tricky thing of talking to people, as you know, like some, some topics are off
limit, not in that they draw lines, but they just shut down.
Yeah.
When you ask them, trust me, I think I talked to Elon three times now, you better believe
I brought up love.
And how far do you think that got?
You could just imagine.
Zero.
That's one.
We, we did, we did exactly the kind of robot back and forth.
Yeah.
We just like just shut down.
So yeah, I, I worry about that with personal, but those, that's the thing that makes it
fascinating with those two, because he had, um, but with Hunter and losing his son, like
the dynamic of the complexities of all that, like just having, um, you know, children fuck
up in the way children do.
And then with Trump, the interesting dynamic with his very different kids and all kind
of interesting in different ways and maintaining connection with all of them and also letting
them flourish individually is fascinating to me.
Well, I'd also want to ask Trump if he can name all the presidents in order, which there's
no, he can.
Yeah.
But I'd also want to know all the prep.
Do you think he knows who the second president of the United States is?
Yes.
Okay.
John Adams, he knows.
I think when it gets between Ulysses S. Grant and McKinley, that's when we all screw up
that window.
It's tough.
Yeah.
I mean, he, he's not, he's going to be able to get back to FDR.
No question.
I have to, my sense was with Donald Trump, and this is not, I would say criticism is
he doesn't have a depth of knowledge or more importantly, curiosity about history.
Yeah.
But if you're old enough, you're going to at least remember the presidents in your lifetime.
In your lifetime.
Yeah.
So that's what I'm saying.
You'll get a president to FDR pretty easily.
Yeah.
Okay.
You went FDR from the other direction.
No, no.
Yeah.
But yeah, from a political perspective, like having a conversation about politics with
those two, there is interesting topics, interaction between Donald Trump and Putin,
not the interaction, like not the stupid journalistic stuff, but it's clear to me that he is a student
of power.
Oh, for sure.
And like he enjoys the game of power.
Yeah.
And so it's interesting because to me, the reason he admires Putin is it's another player
in the game of power.
And I think why so many people hate him, Trump, is that he demonstrated to a lot of Americans
how much of a con job most of politics is and how people just say what they need to do.
But behind closed doors, these people are buffoons and he exposed them as that.
I think Biden would be a tougher interview than Trump because I feel like Biden is more
slippery in many ways.
He's much more of a consummate politician.
He's been in the Senate since the early 70s, since he was like 30 or 35, whatever it was.
So he'd have his little kind of pat answers.
There was Larry King, who was certainly a softball interviewer, and I don't begrudge
him that at all.
He was very, very vividly and it was like, I think it was the 2008 cycle.
He asked Hillary, why do so many people hate you?
Why do you think so many people hate you?
And she just goes like, oh, well, I take tough stances and he cut her off.
He goes, other people have taken those stances.
Why they hate you?
And she didn't really, I was really impressed with him that he didn't let her off the hook.
That to me is great.
But some people say that's still too softball because you, like they would want him to start
listing, I don't know, droning like all the, all the things that Hillary Clinton has criticized
for.
Yeah, but then what she, she's done this many times.
She's very good at this.
She'll be like, look, I've addressed all these in the past.
If you want to start rehashing Republican talking points, you can go look up my interviews.
Yeah, I think it's kind of productive.
So what about more prescient for me?
I can't believe I'm walking through this fire for no good reason whatsoever, but Anthony
Fauci.
Yeah, let me tell you why I care about Anthony Fauci because I care a lot about science in
the way science is viewed in society.
And not to put it at the, at the feet of this one person, but I, him and certain members
of the scientific community that was responsible for managing the response to COVID, I think
are somewhat or entirely responsible for a significant decrease in trust in science.
Yes, no question.
In the past couple of years.
There was a poll that just came out this week that said the number is just collapsed.
And if you don't blame him for it, I personally is blame him for not improving the problem.
And so there's definitely would be a harsh conversation there to be had.
And I think I want to have it, but how do you do it?
It's tough.
Yeah.
Because, you know, again, politicians, this political answers, if they get too frustrated
too quickly, they will not explore these difficult things with you.
They'll just shut down.
But then if you say too many nice things, because I should also say Anthony Fauci is
an incredible career, like there's several hours worth of conversation to be had about
how amazing of a person he is.
Well, I would also be curious about the AIDS stuff, because that's something it's criticized
about.
And I wouldn't come out aggressively.
I would say, let's set the record straight.
This is some of the criticism you get, blah, blah, blah.
You roll in the AIDS crisis.
Let's talk about this.
And this is something that is important part of American history.
There was a pandemic, but it was localized to certain populations.
And that population at the first, at least, was pretty much told goodbye and good luck.
You're going to have to deal with this.
So how did you deal with that?
I mean, were you scared of getting AIDS, you know, so on and so forth?
But also there was that comment when, and correct me if I'm wrong, I'm not a Fauci expert,
when he basically they told people not to wear masks or they lied about it to some extent,
because they said then people are going to run out of them or something like that.
And they admitted they were being inaccurate.
I would nail him on that.
I'm like, let's address this.
Were you being dishonest?
Is there sometimes when it's important to be dishonest in service of whatever?
Also I would ask him how as someone who's not a politician, whether his level of fame
and adulation has gotten to his head.
How do you have a perspective when and how does it feel when a sitting senator tells
you that you should be imprisoned?
Do you think Ted Cruz means it or do you think Ted Cruz is just playing to his base?
Yeah, I like the fame one.
I would love to sneak up.
I mean, that's got question applies to you too.
The question applies to me.
When you start getting more fame or money or power, are you aware of how that changed
you and explore that?
How has that changed you?
In the privacy of your mind, Michael Malis, how did you change now that you've gotten
more attention, let's say?
Or even the success of the book?
Take yourself back to the, you talk about the early 20s, the mid 20s person.
How are you different from that person?
Are you the same person or are you totally different?
What's an interesting thought is Putin the same person in 2020 as he was in 2010 and
then in 2000?
It's a non trivial, almost like.
And then the other thing with Fauci is this is the dynamic system.
Like on the one hand, he's going to want to say we got it right every time, right?
But then how is that even possible when you're dealing with an evolving, unknown dynamic situation?
When did you guys get it wrong?
That result in lives lost, do you feel guilty about that?
I mean, the big problem with the masks, the changing of mind on the mask is the arrogance
in how it was communicated.
Right.
To me, a lot of this boils down to how things are communicated.
It's like, it's obvious that you need to change your mind when you get new information.
Or sometimes, yeah, you take policies that are like, we know the truth, but we're going
to lie for a particular reason, like you have good intentions, but if you're not able to
communicate that later, like we made a mistake.
Or even ask him, can you understand how a rational person might choose not to get vaccinated?
Yes.
And if he can't steal man that, then that's the situation.
That's a good test.
And I've tried, and some people succeed and some people fail is the ability to really
steal man the other understand that somebody should would be hesitant about taking the
vaccine.
Yeah.
It's a giant mess, man.
This podcasting, it's just a fun little conversation, but it also has a responsibility.
I don't know.
I don't know how Joe does it.
I don't think Joe cares as much as you do.
It's more fun for him in a sense, and he's less concerned about the, I mean, he's not
unconcerned with the cultural impact, but for him, it's just more growing out.
Yeah.
Like he doesn't do as much prep.
He doesn't come in with three pages of single space to, you know, questions.
Yeah.
And that's why he's talking to Blair White for 10 minutes about whether sharks lay eggs
without knowing.
You're the one triggered person.
Maybe he trolled the troll.
Well, it worked.
Yeah, he did.
The sharks lay eggs.
I'd like to get an updated 2021 version of Michael Malis giving advice to young people.
Okay.
So there's, God forbid, high school students, college students listening to you and looking
to you for advice.
What advice would you give them about career and about life, how to live a life that you
can be proud of?
This happens a lot because I have my locals community, malis.locals.com, and there's a
lot of young people in there.
So that's a great place.
I'll give them a meta piece of advice.
Don't ask your friends for advice because you're an idiot at your age and they're all
idiots and they don't want to seem like idiots, so they're just going to give you advice they
pulled from the TV and no one knows what you're talking about and it's just going to be counter
intuitive.
Yeah.
So seek out advice from people who you seek to emulate and ask them for advice.
If you can't get a hold of them, figure out a way to get a hold of them, incentivize them
in some way.
You'd be surprised how many people are responsive on Twitter or in social media if you just ask
them a basic life question because then they can quote, tweet, and answer to a whole population.
So that would be one mechanism.
It's also very hard at that age to realize your parents might not be all that bright and
they might not be all that good people.
So that's a hard one at that age to kind of wrap your head around just because they love
you doesn't mean they understand you and that's okay.
That's okay.
We like everybody.
Shit, your Trump is pretty good too.
I'd like your Trump to talk to Elon to have a conversation.
Well, Mr. President, you know, look, some things you did like some, not so much, but
you know, for the most part, I think they're kind of a good thing.
What are you talking about?
Hey guys, what are we talking about?
No, I fucked up the legs.
Anyway, so that those would be two pieces, the other piece of advice I would say is join
a gym or have some kind of quantifiable daily improvement to keep you sane.
So the reason I always say weightlifting and it could be running, it could be jump rope,
I don't care what it is, because if you have those numbers moving in the positive direction,
psychologically, if you're dealing with depression or anxiety, it's concrete proof to shut your
brain up because your brain knows how to talk to you.
Your brain is off on your enemy and I'll say exactly the right thing to undermine you.
So that's an issue.
Be I just, this works for me, maybe it weren't for most people.
I'm very high on the openness metric.
Try new experiences, new things, try things you don't like.
It's okay to have a bad experience.
You've learned something.
So go to a restaurant of a cuisine you wouldn't like or hadn't heard of, read a book that's
popular but you have no interest in.
Read a lot.
For example, I didn't know anything about the election, what was it, 1892 when there
was like a split between the electors.
Read a book about it.
Oh, I didn't know anything.
You know, I don't know anything really about Malcolm X.
Read a book about him.
You'll be amazed how much more full you become as a person.
Do you see value in writing also, like writing down your ideas?
No, I think there's very little value in that.
I'm not joking.
So reading is where the biggest big possible.
Yeah, because you're probably not going to revisit what you've written down.
But the act of writing, you don't see, it solidifies somehow thoughts in your mind.
Not for me.
No, it doesn't for you.
Like a tweet will, because then I have to have it narrowed down into like a phrase.
Oh, the responsibility of there being an audience.
No, I just meant in terms of I've got 280 characters, so instead of having a reandering
thought, I have to codify it in something that's catchy and short.
That's a good, useful mental exercise.
What face do you make when you tweet?
I wouldn't know.
I don't know.
That's a good point.
Is it on the toilet?
How much, what percentage is on the toilet?
Very little.
On the toilets, I usually more reading.
So even though my tweets are all literally shit, there are a few of them are on the toilet.
That's some advice.
Don't compare yourself to other people.
That's a really dangerous one.
All my friends are married.
I should have a kid by now, should, there's an expression in recovery, stop shooting yourself.
But it's, should, should, should, it's stupid.
I also, and this could be my hoarder brain, I surround my house with talismans of joy.
So if you have an accomplishment, like when I did Rogan once, I bought with the sock store
and I bought these orange socks with black cherries on them.
And now whenever I wore that socks, those socks, I'm like, oh, this is because I was
on Rogan.
That was kind of a big deal.
So if you have these little things throughout your house, it's, it was good mental fuel.
Even like, like a toy.
Remember when I was a kid?
Oh, you know what?
This little moments that inspire happiness, I think are visually very useful.
So that's another one.
And I, by the way, have the, that the watch and that, because we're talking about 2021,
I was really, the guy in the lecture hall giving a pat in the back, Joe gave me the,
the watch was, it has life changing for me.
Yeah.
It doesn't even, it didn't, the fact that it was on a podcast or whatever, doesn't matter.
Learn how to form boundaries.
That's probably the biggest, that's going to be number one on my list.
Can you explain?
Because you're going to have people around you who feel the need that they're entitled
to your time, who feel the need to criticize you and they're not coming from a good place.
So it's very good for you to be like, I'm not interested in talking about this anymore
right now.
Yeah.
Even if it's your parents.
Even if it's your, especially if it's your parents.
Like I need my space right now, you're entitled to your space, you're entitled to your time.
No one owes you, you don't owe anyone a response.
If someone has a question, you owe them an answer, especially if they're not coming
at you in good faith or they're coming in hostile way.
That's a big one.
It's hard to learn at that age and be valuable to those who are around you.
Be someone who people are happy to see and if things are bad, like you're the one that
they can rely on.
Like I was just a little bit under the weather and I thought to myself, you know what, if
things got really bad, I'll call Blair and she would take care of me and that kind of
was very reassuring.
And you can always call me if you have your stuff lifted in an urgent matter.
Because of the robots?
No, just me.
It's just kind of like, that's those things that can help with or you're actually literally
bleeding.
Not a good caretaker.
I can save you though.
I can murder.
If you need somebody murdered.
Yeah.
Wait, what advice would you have to kids that age?
You're a lot younger than you think you are.
That's the other one.
Yeah.
There's time.
I know.
It's impossible to understand when you're 26 that your 40s are better than your 30s because
like, okay, old man, that's all cope.
I promise you it is.
Yeah.
I think he said so many beautiful things.
I would say another version of the openness, I'll say take big risks when you're young.
Yeah.
If you fail, who cares, you're sleeping in a soup, it's not in a food town, who cares.
And take them often.
Yeah.
Also, this is more a little personal to me, I get pushed back on this, but I think take
big risks and work really hard, like at whatever you do.
Like, I think you just have to give yourself to a thing.
It doesn't have to be in terms of time, but really give everything.
So it's not like I'm going to try doing this, I'll try, I'll try.
Try with all of your heart, like really commit yourself.
That doesn't mean necessarily hours, that doesn't mean, but like if you fail at doing
a thing that you commit to, it should hurt.
So like when I competed in Jiu Jitsu or you do like sports and so on, don't just say I'm
going to have fun out there and so on, no, try to win because then if you don't, it hurts
and you learn from that.
And then throughout, I think this is the goodness thing, is be kind.
It's like, some of it is also skill, allowing yourself to be kind.
I found myself earlier in life, I still do this.
I find like when I hang out with people, people are often like cynical and negative.
And yeah, I try to avoid those people, no, but like they have, I think everybody falls
into that and sometimes it's the party norm thing.
There's a temptation to me to kind of fit in by being more negative than I'm comfortable
being and so resist the pressure, I think especially when you're younger, it's not cool
to care.
The thing that drives, when you're young, if you are a fan of a band, a writer, a podcast
or an actor and people roll their eyes at you, watch out, those people are dangerous.
You should have, if you love Avril Lavigne with her terrible music and she gives you
joy and people crap on you, they're wrong and you're right.
So hold on to those things that make you happy and if people wanna take that away from you
or how could you like that, those people are not your friends.
Why do you have to go make life so complicated?
She's my favorite musician of all time, Jim Hendrick's second ever living first.
Thank you for almost bringing a deer to my eye.
You mentioned the should ofs in terms of love and you should have kids by now.
I apologize if it's a personal one, but I think at least I have this thought and not
from society, but from myself, like I wanna get married, I wanna have kids.
Do you feel the pressure of that?
Do you wanna have kids?
I just don't wanna have kids and I do wanna get married.
This was an issue that I had to kind of work out earlier this year in terms of the possibility
of having kids because I was in a relationship with someone who would have been in many ways
literally a perfect mom.
So I did my due diligence and I actually sat down with friends of mine who had kids and
I say, give me the downside.
You did the pros and the cons.
Well, the pros I knew, the pros for kids are very, I love kids.
I was just with Frank Fleming, he writes for the Babylon Bee and he had his four kids and
his youngest son has Down syndrome, was just adorable, Winchester was so cute.
And I always get along with kids very, like I remember very vividly what it was like to
be a kid, especially a precocious kid and I remember how much it bothered me when my
parents friends wouldn't give me attention.
So I always make it a point to acknowledge kids, to talk to them and they're very grateful
and it's just really fun, especially the people who I'm friends with, their kids are probably
gonna be pretty cool.
They're not gonna be annoying and kind of ugly and overweight.
So I love you got that in there.
Okay, good.
Yeah, sorry.
But the cons, the negatives, what was the conversation like about that?
Well, my sister has two kids, my nephews who I absolutely adore, whatever their names are.
And she was saying certain things, it's like if I had kids, my kids are in my top priority.
Like it's not even a question.
And I feel like the work I'm doing, and this sounds pompous but it's true, is A, valuable
and important but I'm also the only one doing it.
So this is a big cost and so it's like it would be a major lifestyle readjustment.
And I'm at the point where I'm kind of selfish enough that I wouldn't want to do that and
also it would have to do with the right woman.
You're making a commitment and since they're all crazy, you have to find one where you
can handle the crazy.
All women are crazy?
Yeah.
They're one and a half's in a binary world.
Oh boy.
Yeah.
It's not comfortable for me.
Yes, sir.
But do you feel the pressure and thinking of that?
How much does that weigh on your heart?
So Elon has kids, I feel like I love everything and I love stuff I do.
I love the robot over there.
Just working out with robots but I do feel the pressure of like, almost like when there's
amazing cuisines you never tried or something like that, like go out there and try it.
Like you need to put in the work and I don't know, like life will run away from you, slip
through your fingers before you truly get to experience this other kind of love which
is like long term love for another human being which is like marriage and then love
for kids.
Yeah.
And it almost makes me sad like not getting to experience that because I'm also really
scared of, I've seen so many bad stories on the partner side, like being with the wrong
person.
Right.
But to me, I'm not worried, I have kids all day, in fact, I could probably just have kids
without the partner.
Kids I think are incredible.
With the partner, like a wife, it seems like she could then have the negative consequences
for like you as a writer on your productivity and your mental ability to flourish, being
a joy to others, all those kinds of things.
You know what, that couldn't happen because every relationship I've had, they've been
very beyond supportive, like they'd rather take an hour and do your work than spend time
with me, like I believe in what you're doing.
So I couldn't even casually date someone who didn't believe that.
So that's energizing.
Yes.
But over time, you never know like how that evolves and all those kinds of things.
And for me, I think we're a little bit different.
I mean, that has to do with the engineering thing, I just have to pull insane hours.
Yeah.
I don't.
I work like two hours a day.
But like creatives do, like you can only work a couple of hours, honestly, to be productive
and rest of the time not, I have to do a lot of menial labor.
And so there there's legit tension on time and attention, all those kinds of things.
I don't know.
Do you think about this stuff a lot or do you just love life and do cool stuff and whatever
happens, happens?
I have been so blessed for so long now that I'm at the point where I don't think about
it and I'm like, you know, just like miracles happen every day, so just be open to it.
You think about your death, mortality?
Yes.
Fear?
What do you feel about it?
I'm just worried.
I want to take as many people out with me as possible.
So suitcase nuke.
What's the best way?
Nuke.
Suitcase nuke, I'm thinking.
Yeah.
In New York, that would be kind of like ironic as my other favorite artist would say.
I think about my legacy and that's why my books are so important to me.
So do you think of it as a kind of immortality?
It is though.
Like that's who you are.
Is those books?
Well, it's not who I am.
My legacy certainly is.
What do you hope your legacy is?
That I encourage people to be hopeful and that I taught them how to be free.
And my favorite, I think the best show of all time was Dallas, which often gets, it
was like an 80s soap opera and people conflate it with Dynasty and they think it's trashy
and it was very Shakespearean because all the characters are motivated by different
values and the writing is just masterful and the acting is masterful.
And I'm not going to spoil anything.
One season ended with one of the characters on their deathbed in the hospital and the
whole cast is there and the amount of acting talent in that room is just phenomenal.
And as the characters dying, they look around and they go, like, please be kind to one another.
Be a family.
And they're yelling at this character, don't you dare die on me.
And you can see the actors because they're losing their castmate who they've had from
the beginning.
And it would have been a perfect ending to the show, but obviously it's a cash cow,
they got to keep milking it.
And I think that like kindness and tenderness, and this is Michael Malis talking, it's,
there's a lot of people who want to make it that if you are kind or tender, you're going
to have consequences, bad consequences.
And I think it's important for me at least to create a space in my life that if someone
is going to be nice or friendly or kind that they're not going to have to feel stupid or
bad about it.
It's, we have such a, it's such a disincentive, the set of structures so different, like
if you want to be cynical and sneering, like round of applause, but if someone says, oh,
this is great, like, okay, simp, it's, it's really bad.
Well, I think you do just this, you do this today, you do this in our friendship and you
can do it for a very large number of people's teach them how to be, how to have hope and
teach them how to be free.
So, Tavaresh.
It's nobom godom.
Thank you so much for talking to me.
Thank you so much for being an inspiration.
I love you, brother.
I love you.
Thanks for listening to this conversation with Michael Malis.
To support this podcast, please check out our sponsors in the description.
And now, let me leave you with some words from Albert Camus.
Don't walk in front of me.
I may not follow.
Don't walk behind me.
I may not lead.
Walk beside me.
Just be my friend.
Thank you for listening and hope to see you next time.